DE MONTMORENCY.
I.
Family Anecdotes--A scheme to gain riches over-turned by love, and a marriage the cause of retirement.
A LONG train of illustrious ancestors could Hubert de Montmorency boast of--He could recount the many glorious actions that had been performed by them for their country-- He could shew many standards which they had taken from the enemy in battle,--and he could exult in the knowledge that the honor of the Montmorencies had never been sullied by an unworthy action.--But this was all--the fortune of his ancestors had been wasted away, by their endeavours to support the splendor of their birth, and nothing was left for him but the ancient family seat, and a very small territory round it.
Hubert de Montmorency had endeavoured when young to remedy this want of fortune, and for that purpose had entered into the army.--He had not disgraced the name he bore--his country had acknowledged the obligations she owed him--his Sovereign had conferred on him the CROIX DE ST. LOUIS--but he obtained no more--instead of increasing his fortune, he had lessened it--for it was expected that a Montmorency should support the lustre of his name, by a proportionable expence, and by being unwilling to deceive those expectations, he had spent more than his small patrimony would allow.
Finding, therefore, that as a soldier he could not obtain the favors of fortune, the
idea started into his imagination to seek them by an alliance with the daughter of some wealthy nobleman, to which the dignity of his birth gave him a sufficient claim.
Had his breast been a stranger to the tender passions he perhaps might have succeeded--but tho? courageous as the lion, he was also gentle as the lamb.--He could feel for the unhappy, he could shed a tear for the miserable.--It is in such hearts that love delights to fix his residence.
He became acquainted with an old officer, the descendant of a noble family, but like himself--poor.--He had an only daughter, De Montmorency saw her and immediately his prospects of increasing his fortune by marriage vanished, and his resolutions were all forgotten. He loved her, and that love was sincere, as it was ardent; for dishonor and De Montmorency were names which were never joined together.-- Their love was mutual, and they were married. De Montmorency found himself as happy as mortal could be--but his expences were increased, and he experienced, that to remain in the army, would only reduce him to poverty--He laid therefore his commission at the foot of his sovereign, and retired to Montmorency, the seat of his ancestors, possessed of an amiable wife, and the Croix de St. Louis.
In this retirement, enjoying happiness and tranquility they lived; though a sigh would often escape Hubert, at the thoughts of a Montmorency being thus buried in obscurity, and as it were forgotten.


IV.
A change of Life and a reverse of Fortune.
DE MONTMORENCY when he arrived in the capital, presented his father's letter to his sovereign, who received him very graciously, and gave him a commission in a regiment which was on the point of sailing for America.
This could not but be agreeable to a young soldier who burned with impatience to draw his sword in defence of his country--He joined the regiment, which embarked immediately.
The winds were prosperous, but Charles complained of them, and was impatient to tread upon the shores of the new world.
His wishes were at length accomplished--They arrived at their destined port, and the first who leaped on the beach, was De Montmorency.
Every thing seemed to favour his desires.--The regiment in which he served was ordered, soon after it arrived, to attack the English.
When Charles was informed of it, his heart danced with joy--"Now, said he, to himself, will I convince my father that I am not unworthy of the name I bear--now will I prove, to him that I am a Montmorency"--but as the soldier's fate is uncertain, the evening before the battle, he wrote the following letter to his father.
"Sir,
"We are now in sight of the enemy's camp--The soldiers are preparing for battle, and to-morrow we are to attack the foe.
"From the duties of my station, as a soldier, I have stolen, for a moment, to discharge my duty as a son--you will wish to know how I feel--I assure my father that I am calm and composed--that I am determined not to sully a long illustrious line of ancestors by an unworthy and a cowardly behaviour, or to disappoint the expectations of a tender parent.
"In the breast of him alone who "directs the arrow, and who points the dart" is my
fate--perhaps I may fall--if I do let it be some consolation to my father, that his son fell not unworthy the name of
DE MONTMORENCY."
Solemnly and slowly retreated the night, as tho? unwilling to let the cruel day begin its reign, and light mankind to shed the blood of one another.
The feathered creation seemed for once to enjoy the blessings of reason and humanity, and far from the tented field flew with abhorrence and disgust--all but the savage vulture--he alone remained behind, and with a grim pleasure hovered in the air, beholding the preparations for battle and for slaughter with secret rapture and delight.
De Montmorency was up, and in his post the first--the drum beat to arms--The whole regiment was soon in readiness, and began their march--The enemy were not

V.
Excessive joy the parent of transcient grief.
HE stopped not at Paris, but immediately set off for the abode of his father. His horse he left at a neighbouring village, resolving to walk the rest of the way, and to hit upon some method in order not to surprise his father with his presence too suddenly.
Hubert de Montmorency had found the hours pass slowly on, since the departure of his son,--he engrossed all his thoughts, and he found it impossible to pursue his former studies with perseverance.
The morning of our Hero's arrival, Hubert was indulging himself with a walk on the road which led to the Village--He saw his son at some distance--He thought it was a delusion, and that his eyes deceived him. Charles, who was buried deep in thought, beheld not his father 'till he had got almost close up to him--he lifted up his head--the author of his existence stood before him--He sprung to his embrace--this was too much for Hubert to bear--he pressed his son feebly in his arms, and fainted away.
Charles was almost distracted, and ran about like a madman for assistance--none could be found--He returned to his father, still he lay senseless on the ground--In this extremity the thought of breathing a vein fortunately occurred to him--he felt in his pocket for his penknife, and laid hold of his parent's arm, but his hand trembled so, that he was forced to let it drop--summoning, however, all his resolution, he took hold of his father's arm a second time, and opened a vein.
At first the blood came but in drops, it flowed soon freely, and at length Hubert opened his eyes.--De Montmorency was transported with joy--he kissed the hand of his father, who looked with inexpressible affection on him, and binding up his arm, lifted him from the ground, and supporting him, they proceeded slowly home.
Hubert was with difficulty prevented from fainting, through excess of joy, a second time--Charles, however, tried every method to reason him into calmness and moderation, and at length succeeded.
They were met at the entrance of their dwelling by the old faithful domestic, whose joy at seeing the son of his master safe returned, was very near as immoderate as Hubert's--He fell at his feet, kissed his hand, invoked every blessing on his head and declared that to be the happiest day he had ever known--Charles, penetrated with this instance of gratitude, raised him up, and enquired very tenderly after his health, thanking him at the same time for his good wishes.
As soon as De Montmorency had partaken of some refreshment, Hubert desired anxiously to know what had occasioned his return to his native country so soon.--Our Hero immediately relieved him from this anxiety, and convinced him that his son had not acted unworthy of his father.
Hubert heard him with delight, again he embraced De Montmorency, and again returned thanks to Heaven, for having bestowed on him such a son.
Soon as the transports of pleasure, occasioned by returning to his father, had subsided, our hero found the time pass rather heavily--day succeeded day in same uniform dulness--nothing to cheer the lazy-pacing hour; nothing to employ his time nor engage his attention--His active mind could not be contented with the gloom of solitude

VI.
A Ramble--an Accident the Introduction to a
New Acquaintance.
BUT though he pursued with unwearied diligence his military studies, there were others which he did not neglect.
Of Poetry he was very fond, and when he had fatigued his mind with mathematical demonstrations, would fly to the productions of the Poets with alacrity and pleasure--of these the sonnets of Petrarch afforded him most entertainment.
It was on a still summer's evening, when the setting sun tips the mountains? tops with radiant gold--when the black-bird from the distant grove pours the liquid note upon the bosom of the gentle zephyrs, who enraptured with the harmonious sound scarce breathes upon the trembling leaf,--that De Montmorency was wandering through the windings of the wood with Petrarch in his hand.
In the midst of one of his charming sonnets to Laura, his attention was suddenly arrested by a violent scream--he listened again--another followed--not doubting but that some one was in danger, he flew to the place whence they proceeded, and at the extremity of the wood, beheld a female lying on the ground apparently senseless--he approached nearer--never did he behold such beauty--such engaging softness--For a moment he was struck dumb with admiration, but quickly recollecting himself, raised the lady in his arms, and carried her to a spring just by, there laying her head gently on his knee, he sprinkled her face with water, and rubb'd her temples--This soon brought her to life again--she opened her eyes gently, fixed them with the most bewitching softness on De Montmorency, and with an engaging confusion on her countenance tried to disengage herself from the posture in which she lay.
De Montmorency saw her wishes, and immediately presented her his hand to rise.--After having, in a flattering voice, returned him thanks for the service he had rendered her, the lovely maid would have retired, but De Montmorency would not permit her.--Suffer me, Madam, said he, to conduct you to my father's house--It is but just by--you have not yet strength enough to walk home.
Attributing her silence to consent, he gently placed her arm within his, and they proceeded to our hero's home--Never did he find himself so aukwardly situated before, he wished to speak, but his tongue denied its office--Whenever he attempted to cast his eyes on her face, he felt his own glow with confusion--nor was his lovely charge in a more enviable situation--her hand, which De Montmorency held, tembled excessively; and her languishing blue eyes fixed on the ground, betrayed her extreme confusion.
It was well for them that they had not far to walk--when they had arrived at Huberts?, De Montmorency introduced her to his father, and relating to him the manner in which he found the lovely female, she was received by him with the greatest politeness, and the old domestic was ordered to bring some refreshments.
When her spirits were a little recruited, she told them, that taking the air on horseback, her horse took fright at a viper that laid in the road, and ran away with her-- unable to manage him, she screamed out, and thinking it better to run the risk of hurting herself in the fall than trust herself longer on his back, disengaged her foot from the

VII.
The Domestic.
WHEN De Montmorency got home, there was no one up but the old domestic who was waiting for his return--Our Hero was not inclined to retire to his chamber immediately, he therefore sat down in the parlour, and taking up Petrarch, desired the old domestic to go to bed--but he refused, and alledged as a reason, that he was as little inclined to sleep as De Montmorency, whom he feared from his manner had met with some mishap.--To satisfy his affectionate inquietude he related what had passed--The relation being concluded the old man sighed deeply, and upon our hero's enquiring the cause.--"Alas, my master, (said he) I see you desperately attached to a woman, and am grieved to think whether that attachment may hurry you--experience has long so fatally convinced me that the Hyena is not more destructive to her prey, than women are to the objects that adore them.--Perhaps you will not think this observation so erroneous, when you have learnt a short detail of the events of my life, which, if you are not too fatigued to pay attention to, I will now relate.
De Montmorency declared he was not; after a short pause, therefore, the old domestic began his narrative in the following words,--
"My real name is BERNARD de TOUIS though I have always hitherto gone under the appellation of JAQUES de CALLIER.
My ancestors, time out of mind, rented a small farm in the province of Bretany, which they always found sufficient for the comfortable maintenance of their family--Out of eight children which my father had, I alone survived; I believe the grief of having lost so fine a family, was the chief cause of my parent's death, for they died within a month after the decease of my sister, and left me, then about two and twenty years of age: I was afflicted very sensibly at the death of both my parents, but time soon effaced the traces of sorrow from my mind--I continued in the farm which they held, and cultivated it myself--My affairs went on prosperously enough, but fool that I was, I thought they would improve if I married, and therefore I looked about me for a suitable match--I soon pitched upon a young maiden of nearly my own age, pretty and very good natured--she was called ANTOINETTE--Oh! would I had never seen her.
The girl, I thought, had some affection for me, for she preferred me to all the lads of the village, and in every rural sport, chose me for her partner.--I was deceived by this shew of affection, and courted her for my wife--The time of courtship was merrily spent, and from that I predicted increase of happiness in an alliance with Antoinette--silly fellow that I was not to know that the days of courtship are the happiest of our lives.
After a few months spent in this manner, I thought it high time to be married--we were so--and I was, in my own conceit, completely happy--My Farm improved under her management, and for some months after we were as happy as the first day of our courtship--The Lord of the Village came every half year to collect his rents; when he came for mine, he praised my choice, and seemed much taken with my wife, I was pleased with his approbation, and loved my Antoinette the more for having been approved of by our landlord--He came several times afterwards, and often made us little presents--I suspected no harm, and thought myself highly honoured by the attention and


VIII.
A Man in Love.
DE MONTMORENCY retired to his apartment, but sleep was a stranger to his eyes,-- his bosom was filled with new emotions,--the image of the lovely Elise presented itself to his imagination--he sighed, and from his sensations, found that he was certainly in love with her.
The discovery did not alarm him--he indulged the delightful idea,--he found
himself less than ever inclined to sleep, and therefore as soon as Morning with her mantle grey appeared on the mountain's height, he arose.
Full of the events of the preceding day, he wandered through the wood to the spot
where Elise had fallen; he recapitulated her looks, her attitude, and in a transport of love threw himself on the very place that had been pressed by the lovely maid.
A certain author says "that men in love are fools," unwilling to enter into a contest with him at present, I will suppose that he has spoken the truth; and granting that he has, I maintain that the generality of men had rather attach to themselves the appellation of fools for being enthusiasts to the charms of beauty, than be thought wise men for possessing a cold indifference.
Elise de St. Clair had felt herself strangely prepossessed in favour of our hero at quitting him, and when she retired to her apartment, had found herself as little inclined to sleep as he had.--It was her usual custom to rise early, and walk before breakfast; but this morning she rose more so than usual.
Is it unnatural to suppose that with such sensations she should walk to the place where she had first seen De Montmorency?
At the moment while he was pressing the spot where she fell, Elise arrived there.--Hearing a noise, he started up--she started too--involuntary blushes filled both their cheeks, and it was not without hesitation and confusion that they reciprocally exchanged the salutations of the morning.
De Montmorency finding himself unable to converse on common topics with ease, asked Elise if she was fond of the Italian language; being answered in the affirmative, he pulled Petrarch out of his pocket, and changed the conversation to his sonnets, which she confessed herself unacquainted with.
They had walked to an old oak tree, round which was a rustic seat,--they sat down, and Elise requested De Montmorency to read one of the sonnets--he complied, and chose that which relates the difficulty of declaring his Love for Laura.
De Montmorency's voice was clear and musical--he read the sonnet with feeling and with proper emphasis.--Elise held down her head and blushed--De Montmorency, having concluded the sonnet, shut the book and sighed.
He asked Elise if it was not a delightful sonnet, her assent was conveyed in a trembling voice, and they remained silent for some time.
Recollecting, at length, that the hour of breakfast was not far off, she took her leave to return home alone, but De Montmorency could not be prevailed upon to quit her, 'till she had almost got to the Chateau, when bidding her adieu, he returned home, his whole soul being filled with the lovely girl he had just parted with.

X.
A rural fete upon a son's return--A declaration
of love, and an interruption.
OUR hero had received for the service he had rendered their daughter, a general invitation from Monsieur and Madame de St. Clair, of which he failed not to avail himself often.
Many were the opportunities he had of disclosing his passion for Elise, but invincible modesty tied his tongue; he would have preserved an eternal silence, but for the following event.
Young de St. Clair, who had been some time on his travels, arrived at the chateau, to the great joy of his parents, who were resolved to celebrate his arrival by a fete champetre.
De Montmorency had been introduced on his arrival--he had conceived a dislike for him at first sight.
His appearance was haughty and his manners insolent--our hero's congratulations upon his return he received with a mark'd indifference, and his acknowledgements were couch'd in a stiff formality that rendered them rude and disgusting.
To this splendid entertainment, springing from parently joy, all the young and gay of the neighbourhood were invited, and among the rest De Montmorency, who had the inexpressible happiness of being honoured with the hand of his lovely Elise for the evening--an honour personally bestowed on him by her father as a testimony of the
sense he had of the service which had been rendered her by him.
The fete was celebrated on a lawn before the house, over which hung a canopy of blue silk drawn into festoons and bordered with a deep gold fringe--the whole was supported by the trees that skirted the lawn, and which were decorated with garlands of natural flowers entwined with variagated lamps so as to make the whole have a pleasing and enchanting effect.
De Montmorency and Elise commenced the dancing with a minuet--the elegance of her movement acted as an inspiration on him, and as he was more than ordinary assiduous in his exertions so was he more than ordinary successful in his execution-- every eye was delighted while they were engaged in the dance and every tongue was employed in their praise when they concluded--Several other minuets followed, many of which were executed with grace and judgement, but still Elise and De Montmorency were unanimously admitted to have shewn an infinite degree of superiority.
The minuets continued until the guests were invited to partake of an elegant collation--it was serv'd up in another part of the Park equally superb and fancifully decorated as that in which they had been enjoying the dance--De Montmorency found his spirits elated; Elise was equally gay and inspired--they chatted, laughed, sung, and exchanged a thousand tender glances.
The luxuries of the table were however insufficient to detain them long from the
fascinating sports of Tyrpsichore--the younger part of the company returned to partake of the pleasures of the country dance--De Montmorency still enjoyed the happiness of

XI.
A mutual Vow.
DE MONTMORENCY, when he returned home, which was not till late, revolved in his mind the transactions of the day--St. Clair's interruption he thought was not accidental, and he predicted that from him much unhappiness would certainly ensue.
Such inauspicious thoughts kept him from being able to obtain one moment's sleep, and he arose with a countenance pale and his spirits dejected--he nevertheless proceeded to the place of appointment, where he had not been long when Elise joined him--her presence revived his hopes and cheer'd that gloom which had o'erpowered his spirits and sunk him almost into despair.
De Montmorency, after making his acknowledgements for her thus indulging him, resumed the conversation of the preceeding evening----
"Oh, Elise, said he, though unequal in fortune, I am descended from ancestors that will not disgrace you--and though small the gift of fortune I enjoy, I have enough for the necessaries of life--I ask not wealth, but love--Oh, answer me, then Elise, say that I am not disagreeable to you."--He paused for her answer.
She remained silent--the tear trickled down her cheek, and her bosom heaved with a thousand emotions.
De Montmorency pressed her hand gently to his lips and continued----"Why those tears, my Elise, am I to consider them as falling, because you are unable to give me your love?--if so--if some happier man possess your affections--Oh! may you be as happy as the wishes of De Montmorency can make you.--He may be, he must be unhappy, for his love for Elise can never cease--but he will bury himself and his passion in silence and obscurity, and never shall his presence give a pang to the bosom of her, whose happiness is a million times dearer to him than his own."
De Montmorency finding his spirits exhausted, laid his head gently on Elise's hand, and bursted into tears.
She had been unable to speak during the latter part of our hero's speech; her emotions prevented her--The attitude, the tears of De Montmorency affected her--she begged him to rise--she hid her face with her hands.
"If I err, said she, Heaven and De Montmorency I hope will forgive me--let him not afflict himself--let him think that Elise has said what he would wish her."
De Montmorency lifted up his head in a transport of joy--"Do I hear right-- sure I dream--did my Elise say she loved me--Oh! bliss unutterable!--oh! happiness too much almost to bear."
Elise was overwhelmed with confusion, she dared not look De Montmorency in the face--almost delirious with rapture he started up, and catching her in his arms, imprinted on her lips an ardent impassioned kiss--"Oh, my Elise look up, be not ashamed at having thus made me happy--you do not repent at having raised De Montmorency from the depth of despair?"
"Oh, no, no, Montmorency!" replied Elise, in a voice more soft than the gentle Zephyr's, when on some still evening, he whispers through the trees, "Oh, no, Montmorency!" and she reclined her head on his shoulder.


XIII.
An unwelcome intrusion.
DE MONTMORENCY thought himself the happiest of men, beloved by Elise, his days rolled onward sweetly and swiftly--he looked not, he thought not beyond the present moment, the happiness of which he fondly hoped would be continued to successive ones--ah! how uncertain are all human enjoyments.--The day of life how delusive!-- ushered in by the Sun of Happiness the Morning dawns--we look around us, every thing is cheerful--the sun unsullied by a single cloud shines upon us--we are happy, and imagining our happiness will be permanent, press onward with firmness, and with rapture--at Noon we look round us again, and the scene appears not so cheerful as formerly; we perceive a gloominess in it, dark clouds arise from the horizon and obscure the sun--it grows dark, the rain descends upon our heads in torrents--the Evening approaches, the former beauty of the scene is forgotten in the present dreariness--and Night arriving, finds us weary, unhappy, and discontented.
At the usual hour each morning Elise failed not to meet De Montmorency at the old Oak--there would they exchange a thousand mutual vows of love and tenderness-- talk with fondness of future scenes of enjoyment, and promise themselves in retirement, endless happiness and pleasure.
One morning they had talked over these scenes with more than usual
tenderness--De Montmorency on his knees had called Heaven to witness the sincerity of his affection, and Elise in the same posture had uttered the same invocation.
They were seized with a mutual melancholy--De Montmorency sighed--Elise wept--her head was reclined on his shoulder, while he was employed in kissing off the pearly drops that trickled down her blooming cheeks--The world, every one, but themselves were forgotten.
In this tender attitude--in this melting softness, a voice from the adjoining wood called out to Montmorency, and by the title of villain, bade him desist--he started up, and looking round, beheld young De St. Clair with his sword drawn--Elise shrieked, and running to her brother, fell on her knees--She held up her clasped hands to him, and tried to speak--her tongue refused to perform its office--she fainted away.--Regardless of St. Clair's threats or his sword, De Montmorency rushed to her assistance, and lifted her up in his arms to carry her to a neighbouring brook--De St. Clair would have prevented him, but De Montmorency pushing him aside, carried her to the side of the stream, and sprinkled her face plentifully with water this soon recovered her--she opened her eyes, and looked round for her brother "Oh, hide me, save me from him, De Montmorency."-- and she hid her face with her hands.
De Montmorency promising to protect her, she put her arm within his, and walked slowly out of the wood; they there met St. Clair, who with a furious air bade our hero draw--De Montmorency seeing that Elise trembled, and was ready to faint, whispered De St. Clair he would meet him next morning, with which he thought fit to be contented, and walking by the side of Elise, suffered our hero to support her home.
XIV.
A Duel.
DE MONTMORENCY and his Father lived more like friends, than a father and a son-- this produced a mutual openness which prevented our hero from ever concealing the least thing from him--What a blessing, as well as advantage to society, would it be, did but all parents and children live upon the same footing.
Consequently when De Montmorency returned home, he communicated to his father what had happened, and his appointment to meet St. Clair the next morning.
To Hubert, who loved his son with the extremest tenderness, this was afflicting intelligence; but the sense of honour was stronger in his breast than any other sensation.
He advised his son to keep the appointment by all means, and promised to attend at a distance unseen, in case his assistance should be necessary.
De Montmorency employed himself all the remainder of the day in writing a farewell letter to his Elise, and in trying to make his peace with Heaven.
He retired to rest, but sleep was a stranger to his eyelids--The image of his Elise mourning his absence, perhaps his death, presented itself to his imagination, and tortured him so, that he arose long before the dawn of day, and prepared himself for the approaching contest.
Hubert was as little able to sleep as his son--he arose also, and they were at the place of rendezvous some time before the hour of meeting.
St. Clair, attended by his servant, whom he commanded to wait at a distance, at length appeared, and advancing to our hero, drew his sword--De St. Clair attacked him with fierceness--Montmorency cool and collected, found it no difficult matter to evade his furious assaults, and though he had St. Clair's life many times in his power, from his want of skill, and the fierceness with which he fought; the idea of his being the brother of his Elise, prevented him from taking the least advantage of him, and he therefore only acted upon the defensive.--St. Clair was enraged at his adversary's superior skill, and began with encreased fury.
In the midst of the combat, a female appeared on horseback at a full gallop--as soon as she came near to the combatants, she threw herself with a distracted air off her horse, and ran between them--It was Elise.
"Oh! Montmorency! (said she) will you kill my brother?--Oh! Brother! will you kill my Montmorency?"
Our hero was preparing to sheathe his sword, as a token of his unwillingness to injure the brother of his Elise, but St. Clair, regardless of her tears and entreaties, still pushed with fierceness at our hero, who resolving to put an end to the combat, by a dexterous jerk disarmed his adversary, and snapped his sword in the middle.
He then advanced to the trembling maid, and assured her, it was not his intention to injure her brother, and that he only acted defensively.
Elise looked her thanks, and her approbation of his conduct; but St. Clair, enraged at being thus overcome, seized his sister rudely by the hand, and without deigning to thank our hero for his life, helped her to mount her horse, and bidding his servant bring his, rode off, and left De Montmorency struck dumb with astonishment.

XV.
A change in appearances by an unexpected
offer of friendship.
SCARCE had De Montmorency reconciled himself to the ill-fortune which the letter of Elise gave him reason to apprehend was in agitation when young St. Clair was announc'd at the Hermitage to pay him a visit.
From what had already passed, and the suspicions he was now impressed with, our hero could not entertain a doubt but that his visitor came on some hostile errand, he therefore received his salutations with a cold indifference and a stately politeness--of course he was much surprised when St. Clair, approaching him, took hold of his hand and requested his pardon for his late indefensible behaviour.
As De Montmorency easily forgave those who offended him it was not probable that the brother of his Elise should apply in vain--St. Clair's apologizing for his conduct entirely banished all enmity from his mind, and upon a requisition that their future days might be mark'd with an unshaken friendship it was most cordially acceded to.
For some time they conversed together with the greatest familiarity, talked over their former pursuits, and what particular places they had visited during their absence from home, and so pleased did they appear with each other that St. Clair pressed De Montmorency so eagerly to accompany him to his father's he was forced to consent, and they sat off together for his chateau.
Upon their arrival he was received with more than usual kindness by Monsieur and Madame de St. Clair; and need we say by Elise with pleasure and delight.
De Montmorency was amazed at this extraordinary change of behaviour, he fear'd it was too flattering sweet to be substantial; yet he hoped and thought it was possible to proceed from a conviction of having behaved improperly to him, and for which they were now desirous to make reparation.
When he was about to depart they insisted upon his remaining and spending the day with them--it was the habitation of Elise and how could he refuse?--Upon rising from dinner Monsieur de St. Clair requested his guest to favour him with his company, and taking hold of his hand led him to his study, where in the most friendly manner he entered into a serious conversation with him--wondered how a young gentleman of his active disposition could bear to live a life of idleness and inactivity; and, upon our hero's protesting it was absolutely contrary to his inclinations but that at present he knew not how to change it, he voluntary offered to use his interest (and which he did not doubt would be sufficient) to procure him a post of honour and employment at court--it would not, he said, be conferring a favour but merely discharging a debt of gratitude for the preservation of his child.
De Montmorency was astonished at this singular and unexpected instance of kindness and friendship, for which he thanked Monsieur de St. Clair in the handsomest manner, but observed he was not at liberty to accept the proposition without consulting his father, whom he promised to acquaint with it immediately upon his return home, and inform him of the result in the course of a few days.


XVII.
The Farewell.
THE nearer the day of his departure approached, the more reluctance De Montmorency felt to his intended journey--The preparations were stabs to his peace, and his heart sickened at the idea of separation.
It was often in his thoughts to decline the proposal altogether, but this his pride constantly opposed, and prevented him from putting into execution--To be considered as a weak and unsteady character was his aversion, and to be suspected not to possess a wish to merit his Elise not to be borne.
The day preceding that on which he was to set out on his journey, he was invited to spend at the chateau; to take leave of his friends and bid adieu to his mistress.
To him and to Elise it was a melancholy one indeed--continued farewells glanced in their looks, and the tear of affection sparkled in their eyes--While the rest of the family seemed overjoyed at the intended journey of De Montmorency, he cursed the want of fortune, and the charms of riches which alone created this fatal necessity, which forced him to tear himself from all he held most dear.
At length o'erpowered with the continued conversation of his departure, the lovely Elise wept, and De Montmorency, but for shame, could have accompanied her-- To prevent particular notice she withdrew 'till dinner was served up, of which she partook but little.--The fineness of the day tempted them to rise from table much sooner than customary, for the purpose of enjoying a walk in the gardens and pleasure grounds round the chateau.
De Montmorency wished to be alone with Elise, he panted for an opportunity to take a tender farewell of her, he contrived therefore to draw her, as he imagined unperceived, from the rest of the company--mistaken, however, as he was in that point, they did not think proper to oppose or prevent it.
When they had wandered to the end of a serpentine walk far from the sight of any one, De Montmorency found it impossible to conceal his emotions any longer.
He caught the lovely maid in his arms, and pressing her affectionately to his bosom burst into a flood of tears--Elise could not support this mark of tenderness without being equally affected--she wept in concert with him--Thus overcome with sympathetic grief at parting, they remained some time in silence--neither of them were able to give utterance to a single word.
De Montmorency was ashamed of this unmanly behaviour--Was it for a soldier to give way to womanish weeping--He saw the lovely Elise almost sinking beneath the weight of woe--he felt it his duty to comfort her, and summoned up his resolution accordingly. He withdrew from her embrace, and kissed the drops that fell in abundance from her lovely eyes.
A seat was in view, to that they repaired, and after resting some little time he endeavoured to persuade her to master a grief which he was unable to conquer himself.
"My Elise; my love--do not give way thus to sorrow--be comforted--let us not despair--we shall meet again, and that shortly--let my sweet girl consider that her


XVIII.
The departure.
THE taking leave of Elise was not the only severe trial De Montmorency had to
undergo--he had still to part with his father!
Once before had Hubert known what it was to be separated from a son whom he loved with the utmost affection, and who constituted his sole happiness--it was then a hard task; but his filial duty and attention since his return had now rendered his presence so inestimable that the idea of losing his endearing society was almost too much for him.
When alone Hubert gave way to his sorrow upon the occasion, but determined within himself that his son's spirits should not be damp'd by any intrusion of his grief-- yet, in spite of his endeavours, when the trying moment came the tears trickled down his aged cheeks and all his firm resolves melted into nothing.
All was prepared and De Montmorency was to set out for Paris in the morning-- Hubert, therefore, upon their preparing to retire to their different apartments, folded his arms round his son intending to recommend him to the care of Heaven--at that instant all the fondness of a parent came upon him and he found himself incapable of uttering a single word, or bestow a blessing upon him--his looks, his manner spake the excrutiating conflict of his soul--De Montmorency felt his father's anguish--his heart was almost rent in twain!--and bursting out with a wildness bordering on distraction:
"Cruel, cursed Fortune! (exclaimed he) to follow whom we are forced to tear ourselves from parents, from every endearing connection! from all we love! while thou, fickle goddess! often mockest our pursuits and refusest to recompence us for the sacrifice we oblige ourselves to make thee!"
"Oh, my son! (cried Hubert, recovering himself as much as possible) let not the weakness of old age damp your youthful ardour in the glorious career--the name of Montmorency has heretofore stood high in the annals of our country--go thou and rescue it from its present obscurity--that people who have boasted of the talents of a Montmorency; that king who has been proud of his services, will hear your name with joy, and encourage your merits and virtue with pleasure--serve them truly, and ever think the esteem of your country, and an honest fame the greatest good on this side Heaven."
De Montmorency promised to obey--the sentiments were congenial to his own-- honour was the idol of his worship--nor did family pride reign more predominant in Hubert's breast than in his--With reciprocal symptoms of affection, it being late, they retired to rest; the son happy in being honoured with the advice of such a father, and the father rendering thanks to his heavenly Creator for such a son.
So much affected was our hero with what had just passed that he was determined to set off as soon as the morning dawned, in order to spare his father and himself the pain of another parting--With this view he arose at the second crowing of the cock, and stole softly down stairs--passing by Hubert's room he observed the door was not fastened--he was tempted to see his father once more; and hoping he might do so unperceived and without disturbing him with tip-toe step he ventured in and approached his bed-side.


XX.
A trifling accident the cause of a new acquaint-ance--a tale--two lovers made happy--and a reception.
HIS reflections on the road were of the most poignant kind--he revolved within himself his present pursuit--he conceived, that for an unsubstantial prospect, he was leaving a real good, and for the lurements of wealth, he was forsaking scenes of happiness--these considerations would have certainly induced him to return home, had it not been opposed by the dictates of pride; this made his great heart swell with indignation at his own weakness, and urged him onward towards the capital.
As he was passing through a small Village, thus perplexed with conflicting passions, and the most melancholy thoughts, his horse's shoe came off, and he was forced to alight at a little neat cottage, to stop till another could be put on--The cottage was inhabited by an old woman, and a beautiful young girl, her daughter--her whose countenance was simplicity itself--but a certain air of dejection, threw a cloud over it, and frequent sighs, declared that she was not happy--De Montmorency, who felt for every one in distress, was resolved to enquire the cause--the maiden at first betrayed an unwillingness to own she was unhappy, but at length, by perseverance, our hero drew from her the following confession.
A N N E T T E's T A L E.
"AN't please you, Sir, William and I were brought up here in the same village from our infancy--we used to play and dance together--he preferred me to all the girls in the neighbourhood, and I thought him the most blithesome lad I ever saw--he said he loved me, and I confessed I did the same for him, and we both promised to love one another all our lives--as we grew up, our resolutions were the same, and every body in the place thought we should certainly be married--and so we should had it not been for some soldiers who came to our village--they, at first artfully enticed William into their company, and at length, prevailed on him to resolve that he would go for a soldier--I tried all in my power to persuade him against it, but it would not do, he said he was bound by duty, to serve the Grande Monarque whenever he wanted soldiers, he wanted them now, and go he would--"Alas, Sir, what is the Grande Monarque to us poor villagers?--he does not know us, he cannot care for us?--and so I told William, begged him, with tears in my eyes, to stay at home, and by care and industry we might possibly get a little vineyard of our own in time, but I could not prevail--he would go--Alas, no one knows, Sir, how I mourned his absence for two long, long years--It came afterwards into my head that he would be killed, but these thoughts I always checked, because they were wrong--the Almighty, says I, who is the father of us all, and loves us, will not take my William from me, for that would be cruel, and contrary to his goodness--so I bore his absence as patiently as I could--at the end of two years, the wars being ended he came home again--oh, Sir, how happy did I feel myself at his return!--but, alas, my happiness
XX.
was soon changed!--instead of that love and tenderness he had always shewn me before he went away--he is now totally indifferent, and scarcely ever comes near me; as I love him as dearly as ever, it is his slighting grieves me so--I am sure I shall never be happy again--but I should not so much mind if I could only work as I used to do, towards supporting my poor mother, who is unable to do it herself, and who will most probably be starved, should William's inconstancy be the death of me."
The artless simplicity of the poor girl, touched De Montmorency, and he resolved to do her all the service he could--he sent for William--William was a comely healthy looking lad--as soon as he came into the room, and saw Annette, he blushed.
"William, (said De Montmorency) how comes it that you have broke your promises to your Annette? why have you ceased loving her?"
"An't, please you honour, (replied William) I love her now as well as ever, but when I was in the army, and used to talk about her to my comrades, they would laugh at me, and call me fool for being constant to her, as they were certain she would not be so to me; by this means they made me ashamed of talking of my Annette while I was with them, although I gave no credit to what they said against her; but when I came back to our village, I was told all they suspected was right, and that she had not been true to me--and this, your honour, is why I have neglected her--had she been faithful to me, I should never have forsook her, and though her inconstancy has made me do it, it has cost me many a heart ach, God knows."
De Montmorency saw that William's neglect proceeded not from inclination, and as Annette protested her innocence, he acted accordingly--"William, (said he) who told you Annette was inconstant? for whoever told you so, I am sure, told you false--they deceived you, for some wicked purpose--you shall not make Annette unhappy--consent to marry her, and I'll give you a hundred livres for her portion."
William was too much pleased at the sincerity of his Annette to refuse, and De Montmorency taking her by the hand joined it to his, and he received it with pleasure-- preparations were instantly made for the marriage of William and Annette, and our hero did not depart from the village, without the pleasing reflections of having been the means of making two harmless creatures happy.
His horse's shoes having been replaced in the mean time, he again set off for Paris, where he arrived in a few day afterwards, without any particular circumstance happening--Having taken the necessary rest after the fatigues of his journey, he drest himself, and went to deliver Monsieur de St. Clair's letter as directed.
The Nobleman read it several times over, eyeing De Montmorency all the time with peculiar attention, and at length said, that he would fulfil the wishes of his friend Monsieur de St. Clair, but as some days would elapse before he could execute them, requested our hero to favour him, in the mean time, with his company at his house.

XX.
A religious ceremony interrupted--Reason sub-servient to love, exemplified in the History of St. Julian and Arabella.
THE interval between our hero's arrival at Paris, and the time fixed by the nobleman for fulfilling the request of Monsieur de St. Clair, he resolved to employ in viewing the most remarkable places in Paris with more attention than on his former visit he had leisure to do--he was the more especially induced to fill up his time in that manner from imagining, that besides being some employment and satisfying his curiosity it might in some measure detach his thoughts from his dearest Elise, and obtain some suspension of the corroding pangs of separation--to eradicate the beloved object but a moment from the mind how difficult was it to De Montmorency! how nearly impossible is it to all those who love sincerely.
Absence can possibly decrease an affection which is not founded upon truth and
sincerity, but serves only to make it stronger when the heart is forced to acknowledge an esteem for the object of its wishes is more deeply rooted there than any passion whatever.
De Montmorency resorted to the gardens of the Thuilleries, they were beautiful; he was obliged to acknowledge it: but still would he say to himself, with a sigh, "How much more so would they appear was my charming Elise here to view them with me!"
The gallery of Luxemberg was magnificent--but still to him there wanted one addition to render it a perfect spectacle--had Elise been there he would have readily admitted nothing could possibly be more grand.
While he was passing his time in this manner, visiting every place that was likely to engage his attention or kill the idle hour, he hapened one evening in a solitary ramble to come to the Convent of St. ----, where he beheld a concourse of people crowding in--on enquiring into the cause of such an unusual circumstance, he was told a young lady was then going to take the veil--this was a ceremony he had never beheld, and therefore curiosity, or rather a desire to amuse his thoughts, led him to mix with the people that was about the place and proceed with them into the Convent, and being got into the chapel of which, he took his seat in one of the galleries without any person's interrupting him, and where he thought he should be able to see the whole proceedings with the greatest advantage.
The chapel was ornamented in a superb manner--the priests were arranged in order and anxiously waiting to receive their devoted victim--at her approach being announced they prepared for their official duties with pleasure sparkling in their eyes--A solemn silence ensued, for although the assembly was numerous yet each being intent upon the ceremony and anxious to observe all that passed scarce a breath was to be heard--She entered at the bottom of the chapel and proceeded up the aisle towards the altar with a slow and steady step--Six nuns with each a taper in their hands and singing an occasional hymn began the procession, they were followed by some little boys, walking also two and two, and joining in the chorus, after these came the devoted victim--for such sure in the eye of reason must all those unfortunate females be considered, who from prejudice, superstition, or family policy, have been thus cut off

XX.
This unexpected intrusion was too much for the already oppressed Arabella; she
seemed ready to sink with the weight of her emotions--after some little struggle within herself she assumed a degree of spirits, and addressed him with--
"Ah, why does St. Julian interrupt me in these sacred moments!--has he not distressed me enough already?--Depart St. Julian--oh! do not thus expose me in such a situation--attempt not by a shew of tenderness to shake my resolution--leave me, I say; nor seek to prevent my making this sacrifice to Heaven with composure and fortitude."
"It must not, can not, shall not, be; (rejoined he, with a look of distraction) Heaven will not listen to your pretended, perjur'd vows--oh! repent ?ere it is too late, nor rashly plunge yourself into ceaseless misery!--the ceremony is not yet finished--let thy St. Julian snatch thee hence--he has not been faithless, he will convince his Arabella he has not."
This disjointed application had its effect--she melted into tears and replied in a softened tone of voice--"Ah, wherefore! it is too late--Leave me, St. Julian; leave me to my sorrows."
"O, never! never will I consent to your being immured within these horrid walls."
Proceeding to lead her from the alter, to which she did not appear averse, the priests interfered; they endeavoured to come between them, but failing in that, they resorted to threats for intimidation. "Young man, (said one of the most austere) how darest thou, thus profanely inturrupt our sacred rites? instantly depart, nor draw down vengeance on your inconsiderate head."
"Never, (replied he, with a voice like thunder) your threats are in vain for never will I depart without my Arabella!--Never, (continued he, at the same time pushing the priest rudely aside, and taking her again by the hand) will I leave this hand more--if thou wilt renounce the world and me, thou shalt first behold my blood stream upon the altar."
"Oh, St. Julian, (interrupted the dejected maid) shock me not with such horrid sounds--save me, save me from such terrific ideas, for they rive my heart."
The priests began to be alarmed for the security of their victim, and were proceeding to interfere with violence, in order to separate them, upon which St. Julian drew his sword, and threatened the first with instant death who should molest him--this struck them with consternation--he pressed Arabella to quit the place--she appeared inclined to consent, but afraid to recede from the task she had undertaken--her eyes were alternately fixed on the priests, the altar, and her lover--her affection got the better of her resolution and she began to retreat--The servants of the Convent were now summoned to make use of force against this bold intruder.
De Montmorency who had seen the conflict of the lovers with pity, and the conduct of St. Julian with rapture, felt himself unable to contain any longer from endeavouring to assist them; for this purpose, without any farther hesitation, he leapt from the gallery into the aisle, and drawing his sword united with St. Julian in threatning destruction to any one who should dare to interrupt their retreat with Arabella--With such a supporter St. Julian had nothing to fear--placing the not unwilling Arabella between them, the people with the utmost cheerfulness making way, they were speedily out of the chapel, and quitted the Convent without any other molestation, leaving the brotherhood astonished at their sudden departure; vexed and chagrined at the loss of so beautiful a nun--the audience, though disappointed in witnessing the conclusion of the ceremony, were yet pleased at the devoted victim's being thus rescued from a life of

XX.
for each other, she was at no pains to conceal it, but took every opportunity to testify how ready she was to comply with her father's commands--her love became troublesome, for I found it impossible to make her any return, and her fondness became disgusting, and rendered her my aversion--I was in hopes repeated and studied neglect, would have alarmed her female pride, and subdued her disagreeable attachment, but I was disappointed, and had the misfortune to find, the more indifferent I was, the more fond she grew.
About this time, an old friend of my father's, persecuted by the frowns of fortune, and plunged into the utmost distress, died of a broken heart, leaving this lady, an helpless, almost friendless orphan behind him--the circumstance was represented to my father, and his heart was too open to the calls of humanity not to listen to her distress, and hold out his hand for her protection--generosity is the leading feature of his character,
although when once he has set his mind upon a thing, his obstinacy is not to be shaken--I had so much of one female orphan, that I heard his resolution of bringing home another with disgust; nay, I had the hardiness to oppose his giving succour, at least in his own house, to my adorable Arabella--but he was deaf to any thing I could say--he understood she wanted protection, had promised to give it her, and that promise was not to be broken--She was sent for, and home she came--for several days she was in the house before we met, and this was easy to happen, as I took every possible means to avoid her--crossing an avenue in the garden early one morning, I was struck with what appeared more than mortal--it was my Arabella--From that moment, as you may suppose, instead of avoiding, I took every opportunity to be in her company.
Whatever antipathy I had formerly to Eliza, it now was doubled, for my Arabella soon taught me what it was to love--I loved her without knowing it at first myself--I loved her a longer time without telling her so--I found concealment preyed upon my spirits, and injure my health--Arabella, I flattered myself, did not seem to possess any aversion towards me, and I was therefore resolved to disclose my passion to her--For some time I watched in vain for an opportunity; Eliza was constantly in the way, but meeting her one morning in the garden, I prevailed on her to enjoy the pleasure of the place from a summer-house, which is delightfully situated--she consented, and I soon found means to acquaint her with the sovereignty she held over my heart--she listened to my tale, and I had just (nay, blush not my love) brought my Arabella to confess that I was not disagreeable to her, when my perpetual torment, Eliza, burst into the summer-house, and found me upon my knees, pressing my beloved's hand to my lips, and thanking her for raising me from despair--Eliza started as if she had been adder stung, but said not a word, with a sneer and a toss of the head she turned from us and retreated towards the house--from that day, her behaviour was changed, she behaved to me with the utmost scorn, and took every possible occasion to insult the gentleness of my Arabella, with her poverty, and unprotected situation.
I expected nothing less than that she would have related the circumstance to my father and prevail upon him to remove Arabella, for I knew he had fixed his mind too strongly upon our union, not to be averse to every thing that was likely to prevent it-- these thoughts tormented me for some time; for although day passed after day, without any notice being taken, yet, I was too well acquainted with her disposition, to encourage an idea, she would suffer my preferring Arabella, without meditating some revenge--In this uncertain state, however, time passed on for some two or three months without any


XXI.
A ministerial levee--a singular character-- politics a crooked path to fame--and a sud-den removal to an unwelcome habitation.
FROM the indulgent reception of the nobleman and the short period which he had fixed for fulfilling the wishes of Monsieur de St. Clair, De Montmorency presaged the most favourable conclusions, and flattered himself that they were certain omens of his soon being enabled to re-visit his home, his father, and his Elise.
It was the pleasing reflections produced by such thoughts as these that chear'd his anxious heart, and enabled him to support the pangs of absence with any degree of patience and shew of fortitude.
His imagination would frequently lead him to the pleasing talk of planning future scenes of happiness with the mistress of his heart--it was a delightful subject, upon which Fancy could revel in her full career, uncheck'd by the reins of Reason, bound over the limits of Probability, and dwell with transport on conceived delights that never could be realized--nay, it would sometimes carry him so far as to make him almost fix the day when he should have completed his pursuits, be hastening back, on the wings of love and duty, to the arms of his father and Elise, even before he had made any farther progress than obtained the vague promise of a courtier.
Previous to his setting out upon this expedition he had promised Elise and his father to be constant and unremitting in his correspondence, and to omit no opportunity of sending to them--to be enabled to fulfil which he employed a great share of his time, always keeping letters ready for dispatch whenever occasion offered--in fact it was the only portion of his time that he spent in ease and comfort, therefore neglect was not likely--to see, to speak, to live with them, was the height of felicity--so to convey his thoughts was a satisfaction to his mind, convinced, from the knowledge of their affections, that their replies would bring harmony to his soul.
The Come de----'s hotel (where and with whom our hero resided) was constantly crowded every morning with persons of various descriptions--some dancing attendance for their own promotions, while others were doing the same for their friends and relations.
Among the number of these daily visitants, was an aged officer, whose singularity of manner very forcibly struck De Montmorency--he was constantly present, was always among the first who came and the last that went away, yet never address'd himself to, or held conversation with, any person present--most, even of the first rank apparently knew, and always paid their respects to him--to some few he would return the compliment, but by far the greatest number he would only look them full in the face as if he did not understand what they meant.
This kind of behaviour riveted the attention of our hero, insomuch that at last the
old gentleman noticed it, and taking an opportunity when they were close together, asked him, in a peremptory tone, why he was made an object of his circumspection.
De Montmorency felt that he had acted improperly, look'd confus'd, and begg'd pardon for his seeming impertinence; declared it was without any intention of giving
XX.
offence, as nothing could be more distant from his thoughts, and hoped he would believe as much.
"You are a stranger, then?"
"I am."
"And your name is----"
"De Montmorency."
"De Montmorency! (repeated he, with a seeming degree of transport) Gracious
Heaven, what a name!--it was a De Montmorency that raised this kingdom to a pinnacle of glory--and who knows but a De Montmorency may save it from ruin, and rescue it from the hands of those whose ignorance, not to say worse of them, will soon bring it to destruction.--And pray, young man, what is your business here?"
"To serve my country, if I can--I came recommended to Comte de----by
Monsieur de St. Clair."
"St Clair!--I don't like St. Clair--he is a knave!--but it is knaves only that have
interest at court, now-a-days. And so he sent you to this blessed counsellor of the King's for him to give you a place?"
"He presumed upon his interest with the Comte to flatter me with hopes of employment."
"Well, and what kind of reception has he given you?"!
"The most polite and indulging."
"Aye, there's no doubt of his civility--I have known him treat a man with a smile
when he had a lettre de cachet against him in his pocket, and issue it the moment he was out of sight to take him to the Bastile."
"But he has promised me faithfully."
"Then suspect him--for although he is my nephew, he is one of the greatest hypocrites that lives--St. Clair!--to be sure St. Clair may do much--it often happens that a knave has influence over a rascal, and I believe my scoundrel of a nephew dare not--yes, I say dare not refuse the application of your patron--but it hurts me that a De Montmorency should be ushered in to the service of his country by a Farmier General-- how became you acquainted with this fellow, and by what means did you acquire his countenance?"
"His residence is near to my father's retirement!"
"What! is your father alive?"
"Heaven forbid the contrary--I left him so a few days since."
"How durst he, a Montmorency too, be spending his days in indolence, while his
country stands in need of his service--Sir, Sir, it is the duty of every honest man to sacrifice his private ease to the public good--what, though folly has been countenanced, merit discouraged, is that a sufficient reason for retiring in disgust? I say no, on the contrary, it ought to act as a stimulative to stand up boldly for the rights of men--for when a King falls into the power of ignorant or designing counsellors, every true patriot will risk his all to rescue his King from their machinations, and save his country from inevitable ruin."
"My father, Sir----
"Well, no matter, he must be an old man now, and may possibly have been doing
good, by instilling proper principles into his son; if so, have a care they are not poisoned by the connection you are about to make--if you are a stranger to your ancestors, read

XX.
After a short ride, they stopped at a large gate; here entrance was demanded, and through which, when opened, they proceeded into a court yard, where the soldiers alighted, desiring him to do the same.
De Montmorency, who was somewhat recovered from his astonishment, in the course of the way, ventured to ask one of those who were in the coach with him, to what place they were carrying him; this requisition was answered by one of the soldiers, in a surly tone:
"To the B A S T I L E."
It appeared to him a voice of thunder, for at the mention of that name so horrible
to human nature, a sudden cold sweat seized him, and pervaded his whole frame. "Pray, Sir, (said De Montmorency) can you inform me for what I am sent thither." "That, (replied his guard) is no business of mine;--my orders are to take you
there, so go you must, and get out again how you can."
"But surely I shall not be confined, as I am certain of my innocence." "Innocent!--yes, a man must be very innocent to be sure, when the King has
signed a lettre de cachet against him."
This brutal indifference of his guide, together with the name of the Bastile, had such an effect upon his spirits, that he was, in a manner, stupified with horror, and suffered himself to be taken out of the carriage without uttering a word of complaint, and to be delivered to the Governor by the commander of the soldiers, as a prisoner of the state.
The Governor received the orders and our hero with a bow, and immediately conducted him to a large hall, where a ponderous volume, full of the lives and deaths of the unhappy captives was opened, and his name added to the number; his pockets were then searched, and every thing in them taken away, put in a small cupboard, and carefully lock-up--At the moment of this transaction, a young lady was with the Governor, seemingly his daughter, whose countenance wore an air of concern at the unfortunate fate of our hero.
De Montmorency perceiving the tear of pity steal down her fair cheek, assumed courage to request her to ask the Governor if the officer was not mistaken in his person, and if not, for what crime he was to be confined there, being totally ignorant of having committed any act deserving the censure of government.
She complied with his request, but the Governor whispering something in her ear, she replied to De Montmorency, that as it was de par le Roi, her father, was bound, by his oath, to secrecy.
Our hero thanked her for her condescension with a low bow--he could no more-- the guard retired, and he was immediately conducted to the inside of the prison, where all was gloom and horror--all was silent, his attendants spoke not a word, until they came to the door of a cell into which they bid him enter--he obeyed, and found himself in a small room, about six feet square into which the light was conveyed by a small aperture, (it did not deserve the name of a window) strongly grated with iron bars--a flint and steel, with a candle, being delivered to him, three doors
----on whose hinges,
Grated harsh Thunder.
were instantly closed upon him, and here was he left to ruminate upon this sudden change

XX.
XXII.
The Bastile and its concomitant horrors.
THERE needs very little rhetoric to impress the idea that our hero now considered himself in the most hapless and deplorable situation--Deprived of liberty--excluded from all converse and communication with the world--torn from the parental affections of the best of fathers--cut off from all hopes of experiencing the tender endearments of his beloved Elise--secluded from society, the world, and every possible comfort, perhaps for ever!
In such a situation how poignant must be his feelings! how exquisite his sensations!--You who have been imprisoned in that wretched place, nor tasted, through a series of long, long years, one moment's ease, one moment's respite from despair!--you must best, you can only know what he suffered!--your sympathetic hearts will pity his situation and pant for his deliverance.
As soon as the door of his cell was lock'd, and he found himself the inhabitant of a dungeon, he fell almost into a state of stupefaction, surveyed the bare walls and traversed the utmost limits of his prison house over and over again.
This, as it may perhaps not inaptly be term'd, oppressive gloom of sullen woe at length subsided, Recollection reassumed her seat, and then his miseries became more keen--they stung him to the quick, and set his brain a madding--a sudden fury seized him--he raved with the utmost violence until he was quite exhausted--then falling on the bare ground he repeatedly dash'd his head against the stones--he tore up his hair by the roots, gnash'd his teeth with vehemence, uttered the most horrible imprecations on himself, and in the first transports of his rage vowed to put a speedy termination to his miserable existence.
Nature being quite exhausted by these unusual and violent exertions he sunk lifeless upon the floor, in which state he remained several hours--when he came to himself his delirium had in a great measure subsided and he grew more calm--he raised himself from the floor, and sitting himself down by the side of a wretched bed which lay in one corner of his horrid dwelling, his thoughts wandered to those scenes he had partook of with delight, and for the renewal of which he only wish'd to live--this was more than he could bear, his manly fortitude melted away, and all his mother's weakness came upon him--tears ran from his eyes in incessant torrents--he neither could nor even attempted to stop their course until grown dry with constant weeping not a single tear remain'd to ease his aching heart.
Thus melancholy he sat pondering on his weight of woe, fearful to look forward, nor daring to look behind--Grief, in the end, gave utterance to his tongue, and falling upon his knees;
"Tell me, (said he) good Heaven, how I have merited this dreadful punishment!-- what hideous offence have I unknowingly committed! for unless love be a crime I am unconscious of any wrong, but if that be so, I am guilty indeed.--Oh, my Elise! will not thy Montmorency's loss affect thy peace! shouldst thou learn that he is shut up in the cursed Bastile will it not destroy thee!--my father too!--Oh, thou Supreme! thou great disposer of events! whose decrees mortals cannot question! however it may be thy






XXV.
A journey to Paris, and a visit to a nobleman.
THE resolution which Hubert had made after the conference between Elise and him, he now proceeded to put in execution--his health was not perfectly established, but anxiety to know the fate of his son, made him set out weak and feeble as he then was--The old domestic would have opposed it, but Hubert De Montmorency was determined--The journey was a long one--above two hundred miles--The aged Hubert's narrow circumstances would not allow him to travel otherwise than alone--he had encroached upon his income to enable his son to appear with credit and respectability.
Before he set out, however, he resolved to go once more to the castle, though he
felt it as a forlorn Hope, to learn if they had there heard any news from Paris and his son.
He went, and as he was passing up the avenue of trees, he met old St. Clair,
walking in a solitary thoughtful mood towards the end of the Park--at sight of Hubert he started and turned pale.
"An unhappy distressed parent has taken the liberty, Sir, (said Hubert) to come
and ask if any of your late dispatches, which have arrived from Paris, has brought any intelligence of his son."
"They have not."--replied Monsieur de St. Clair, without ever looking at his interrogator.
"Perhaps you have not heard lately from your friend to whom you have
recommended him; or he perhaps would have noticed whether his success was probable or not."
"Very likely--but our correspondence is not so frequent as it used to be." "I hope my son has not occasioned any difference."
"No;--I am certain he will do all I requested for him, that is, unless his own conduct prevents it--but I know nothing at all about him at present."
Without saying a word more, the aged Hubert took his leave, bowed, and measured his way back to his own cottage, where he only stopped to give some necessary directions to his faithful attendant, and then with an aching and anxious heart, began his journey.
It were unnecessary to enter into a detail of the inconveniencies and difficulties which a weak and enfeebled old man must suffer, in making so long a journey without any attendants, especially to one who had so long retired from the world, and in his youth had known better days, suffice it, therefore, to observe they were many and various; and that the wretched Hubert had well nigh sunk under them--He arrived, however, at length, at his journey's end, and having learnt from his son in what part of Paris the nobleman lived to whom St. Clair had sent him, he instantly bent his way thither--he enquired for him, and after some delays, usual among the servants of the great, he was admitted to his presence, where he no sooner came than,
"An unfortunate father (said he) is come a long journey to seek a son, whom he loves beyond description--to you he was recommended--'tis to you alone I can apply for information, his name is De Montmorency--can your lordship inform me where I may find him."

XXVI.
A journey interupted, and the vicissitudes of life
exemplified in the story of Guillaume Dupne.
THUS disapointed, Hubert was distressed in the extreme; he resolved not to return home,
'till he had made every possible enquiry.
Several weeks did he wander from street to street, and from almost house to house in search of his son--but still his endeavours were fruitless--no tidings could he hear.-- Concluding, therefore, that he must certainly be murdered, he set out for the purpose of returning to his humble home, overwhelmed with the most torturing anguish--there, he thought, he should soon bid adieu to a tormenting world, and resign his breath in peace-- But Nature, which had held out pretty well till now, because Hope had always attended her, could not longer endure such an aggrevated weight of misery.
Hubert had not proceeded far on his journey back, when a violent illness, brought on by grief and despair, attacked him--All at once he was seized with a giddiness, and could proceed no farther--There was no house nigh, except a cottage, small, yet neat in appearance--here he was under the necessity of seeking relief--hesitation was in vain, for he found himself grow worse, and approaching the door, with a view to request assistance, all power forsook him and he sunk oppressed on the ground.
This circumstance did not happen without being noticed by the inhabitants, who flew to his assistance--they instantly conveyed him into the cottage, and rendered him every relief in their power; it was sometime, nevertheless, before Hubert recovered--his swoon gave way to their attention, and when he came to, he found himself in a bed, with two young women watching anxiously over him.
Being a little recovered, he thanked them for their kindness in the best manner he was able, and begged to know to whom he stood indebted for such tenderness.
"We are daughters (replied she, who appeared to be the eldest) to Guillaume Du Prix, our father is out at work, but when he comes home, I am sure he will be pleased at what we have done."
On that instant their father entered--He was much advanced in years, yet healthy and robust, with an indiscribable dignity of countenance--Advancing up to Hubert, he welcomed him to his cottage, with frankness and sincerity, and assured him, that although he could not promise the attendance of Elegance or Wealth, yet Plenty and Content would be his certain guests.
Hubert was surprised at the elegant manner, and polished diction of his host, so much superior to his habitation and appearance.--He had a great curiosity to know what had reduced him to this situation, for reduced from former splendor Hubert was certain he must have been, but his present weakness rendered him at this time unable to make any enquiry.
His kind host, and his daughters, treating him with the greatest tenderness Hubert recovered, by degrees, his health, and was soon able to leave his bed-chamber, and associate with this generous family.
One evening as they were sitting together in deep conversation on the various vicissitudes of human life, Hubert expressed his surprise, at seeing a person of such




XXVII.
The opening of a pre-concerted plan.
THE endeavours of the St. Clairs for the recovery of Elise were by no means destitute of effect--they were constantly contriving to lead her into scenes of amusement, and had the satisfaction of seeing her health daily improve--the strength of youth enabled her to surmount the fever's rapacity, and by the peculiar tenderness of her parents together with keeping her constantly engaged, counteracted the anxiety of her mind, and although it would not eradicate De Montmorency from her heart, nor heal her feelings for his loss, yet in a great measure it softened the poignancy of her distress and sooth'd her throbbing breast into a settled calm.
Monsieur de St. Clair was perfectly acquainted with the cause of his daughter's indisposition therefore the name of De Montmorency was never mentioned, nor the least notice taken of her attachment, least it might keep her passion alive and defeat the plan he had so long had in agitation--and for the success of which he had proceeded so far in having the principal obstacle removed--as it must now plainly appear it was his letter to the Comte de ---- which had occasioned our hero's being conveyed to the Bastile.
This was the plan which was before hinted at as suggested by young St. Clair, and so instantly acceded to by his father: the principal motive that induced the St. Clairs to form this plan and put it in force was a proposal which the Comte de Valgrave had made for the hand of Elise, and which they were sensible could not be obtained without the previous removal of De Montmorency.
Matters being thus circumstanced, as soon as Elise's health was tolerably established her father thought it time to begin his plan of operations--the Comte was accordingly apprised of this resolution, and invited to come and remain some time at their house--this invitation was accordingly accepted and he very shortly after arrived.
He was received by the family with much pleasure and by Elise with politeness-- as a guest of her father it was what he was entitled to--It was but a small space of time that she was left to consider him in that character, being soon made acquainted with the real intentions of his visit.
The Comte, who was rather advanced in life and could boast no personal attractions to recommend him, was connected with some of the first families in France and had a serious attachment for Elise--in conformity with the violence of love was he constantly pestering of her with a declaration of his passion--his love was not only odious and disagreeable to her in itself, but rendered ten times more so, when she drew a comparison, which it was not in her power to avoid, between him and her beloved De Montmorency, whose image still presided in her heart, and whose memory was still as dear to her as ever.
The aversion that Elise entertained against the Comte de Valgrave did not escape the attention of Monsieur de St. Clair--he beheld it with the utmost vexation--he had set his mind upon the match and was determined that it should take place--wishing, however, that it should have the appearance of her own approbation he endeavoured to conquer her dislike by having recourse to persuasion and intreaties; finding these kind of auxiliaries had no sort of influence, he next applied to commands and threats, but with no

XXVIII.
A proof of falsehood, the cause of an unwilling
consent.
AS Elise was wandering a few days after the Comte de Valgrave's arrival to the old oak tree, to which she walked every day, to recall past happy hours to her mind, she was met by Hubert de Montmorency's servant, who informed her that his master had heard from his son, and had sent him with a letter from him, which he delivered into her hands.
Elise was near fainting with delight at this intelligence, she took the letter eagerly, and with trembling haste breaking the seal, read to her inexpressible surprise, the following contents:
"Madam,
"I have been prevented by perpetual engagements from writing to you and my father before.--Monsieur de St. Clair informs me, that he fears you are prevented from acceding to his wishes by some promise to me, to satisfy him, therefore, upon the subject, I take the liberty of addressing you, with the assurance, should such be the case, that I forego all my presuming pretensions, and release you from the bonds of any promise you may have made me, and wish you every happiness.--You will, I hope, pardon me for leaving off so abruptly, when I inform you that I am particularly engaged, and am this moment going with a party to the Comtess de Vieuville's assembly.
"I have the honour to be, "Madam,
"Your most devoted servant,
"Charles de Montmorency."
Elise was struck dumb with astonishment--such an epistle from her De Montmorency!--impossible!--she read it again--and again would she flatter herself, that it did not come from him, but the hand writing was too well known, and convinced her too fatally.
Bursting into a flood of tears, she exclaimed, "Oh! and are all my vows disdained!--is then my love forgotten!--faithless, inconstant De Montmorency--but, (continued she, summoning all her pride to her aid) but thou shalt not triumph over me! thou shalt not force a sigh from my bosom--yes, I will obey thy cruel wishes--an opportunity offers, and I'll refuse no more!"--With these sentiments she returned home, and going instantly to her father,----"Yes my dear parent, (said she) I will accede to your wishes--I will marry the Comte de Valgrave--and though I cannot give him my love, he shall have no cause to complain of the want of it."
Monsieur de St. Clair was overjoyed, he flew to the Comte de Valgrave with the pleasing news--the Comte was in raptures.
The day was fixed, and every individual of the two families, except the hapless Elise, was transported at the approaching nuptials--to her it appeared a day of certain misery--but De Montmorency, on whom her virgin affections had been rivetted--he was false!--he had betrayed her!--she yielded therefore to the wishes of her father, that the union should take place as soon as the preparations could be made, which the Comte insisted upon having executed with the utmost magnificence.

O D E to H O P E.
O THOU!
Who, on some rough rocks height, Woo'st the propitious gale, And fit'st with straining sight,
To catch the long expected sail!
With eyes fixed on the Horizon's verge, Where bellowing loud the swelling surge, To kiss the Canopy of heav'n, high heaves, Which seems to meet the wave, and its salute
receives.
While flattering Fancy pourtrays oft the sail,
That from the distant billows seems to rise,
Which (soon withdrawn the dear deluding veil)
No longer meets thy eager eyes:
What tho? thy heaving breast,
By the full swell of grief be rent,
Still dark Despair is not thy bosom's guest.
Still forward are thy eyes expecting bent.
O Thou!
From whose full train,
Despair with hollow eye,
And pinching Poverty and Pain,
And mirth-contemning Melancholy fly.
Hail! Oh Hail!
For often hast thou sooth'd this Breast, And when my Heart wou'd give full sway, And the dark dictates of despair obey,
Thou, HOPE, hast bid my bosom's tumults rest.
Yet not to any clime alone
Is thy soothing sway confined; Where'er I fling my eye, 'tis known, Thy power is felt by all mankind.
The Captive, on whose form, no grateful gale Has deigned to blow for many a longing day, Who long has ceased the voice of friend to hail, Who long has ceased to feel the solar ray.

XXX.
Memoirs of a Prisoner in the Bastile.
THESE attempts at poetry, it is true, amused his mind for a while, yet a continuance in the same horrid place, filled his bosom with ennui--Other amusements he could not enjoy, for the malice of government seemed with increased violence to be directed towards him--He was not allowed, as many other of the prisoners were, to attend mass in the chapel, or to enjoy the open air in the court yard, nor, as I have before said was he suffered to have books to read, from the library.
Elise was a constant guest in his mind and frequently would he spend hours together, in supplicating Heaven to shower down blessings upon her head--his poor unhappy father too, he would join in those prayers, and entreat comfort for the distress, which his fate must have brought upon the good old man's declining years--These prayers would often lead his mind to those happy days he had passed, and remembrance would almost enable him, as it were, to pass over his life again; but pleasing as were these hours of reflection, they invariably ended, in being brought to the Bastile, where nothing dwelt but misery and woe.
In defiance therefore of all his fortitude, Despair, with her train of horrible attendants, advanced with a quick pace, and he had certainly sunk under her influence, but for the following event.
Walking, one morning in a silent solitary mood, up and down his dungeon, his coat caught hold of a nail, drove in one of the stones in the wall, and drew it out.
De Montmorency turned round to disengage his coat, and lifting up the stone, beheld, under it, a packet of papers, which he laid hold of with a kind of greedy rapture, and tore them open. They contained the following.
MEMOIRS of a PRISONER, confined in the TOUR de la BAZINIERE of the BASTILE,
addressed to whoever should have the misfortune to be the inhabitant of the Dungeon, after him, and should find them.
"HOPELESS, that ever within these walls, happiness again will reach me, I write my unhappy life, for the instruction of him, whose wretched fate it may be to be confined hereafter in this abode of misery and horror.
"Yet, before I relate what my treatment has been in this dreary prison, it is necessary that I should first discover the cause of my confinement in it.--Although, in so doing, I must recall to my imagination, scenes which will draw tears of blood from my aching heart, but the relation of them may be of use to thee, who art unfortunate enough to be in the way of discovering these papers, and I will give it.
"Early in life, I entered into the service of my country, without many friends, and with little money--However, I did not despair of promotion, and like every other soldier of fortune, fondly flattered myself, that merit would ensure its own reward.--Two or three, who were beneath me in rank, and I thought, not superior in military knowledge, or courage, being advanced over my head, soon convinced me, I had reasoned like a fool-- perhaps I acted as one--for disappointment in my warmest wishes, induced me to resign









passed through the village but the Comte de S----, and a lady in his carriage, in their way to Paris, from his country seat.
"A sudden horror seized me, and the suggestion, that the Comte had forced her from me, flashed like lightning upon my mind.
"Summoning all my fortitude to my aid, I debated within my self, what I should do--I was not long in making my determination, and resolved to set out instantly for Paris. Giving my servants, therefore, a strict charge to make every enquiry they could, lest my suspicions should be groundless, and that she might still be near home, in a similar situation to that from which we had relieved the Comte, I proceeded with every degree of dispatch to follow him.
"My journey, as it may naturally be supposed, was a melancholy one indeed--
The idea of what the sufferings of my child must be, perpetually occurred to my aching heart, and almost drove me distracted.
"After a long and tedious journey, I arrived at Paris; and notwithstanding I was
nearly exhausted, yet I could not think of allowing my self a moment's rest, but instantly began to make enquiries in what part the Comte lived, and whether he was then at Paris.
"I was soon directed to his Hotel, towards which I bent my weary steps, but upon my arrival, was informed he was not there--stating, that I had an affair of consequence to communicate, (for I was afraid to hint at the cause of my application, lest his servants might inform him of my being there) they told me he was gone to his villa, at ----, about eight leagues distant, where I should be sure to find him--This intelligence was sufficient to induce me to set off for that place immediately; but although I used all possible speed, I did not arrive at my journy's, end until it was too late to make any enquiries, as all the family were retired to rest.
"As there was no other house near, and it was quite dark, I was forced to take up my abode on the humble bed of turf--sleep that had long been a stranger to my eyelids, did not condescend to visit them on my lowly pillow, and I spent the night in thinking what methods were best to obtain admittance to the Comte, and to recover my child.
"Cold and comfortless I arose, with the break of day, and walked about, at some distance, 'till I judged the Comte would be risen, not deeming it adviseable, that he should have any knowledge of my approach--I then bent my steps towards the house.
"The servants, on my enquiring for the Comte, said I must send up my name and business, as was customary with those who came there to their master--This I refused to do, but desired they would tell him a person attended, who had business of the utmost consequence to impart--upon this they went up with my message, but as guilt is ever fearful--the Comte returned for answer, that he would not see me, unless I sent up my name--Exasperated at this treatment, and sensible my name would not obtain me admission, I drew a pistol from my pocket (of which I had provided myself with a brace) and threatened his servant with instant death, if he did not conduct me immediately to his master.
"The fellow, frightened at my menaces and resolute air, obeyed--I followed him up stairs, and upon his opening the door, entered the room with the pistol still in my hand.
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.



"This was a stroke of fate that I was not in the least prepared to encounter--to the villainous Comte I felt I was indebted for being sent to this place, whose name alone is sufficient to chill the soul with horror--my wrongs I found had given way to his power, and justice was once more to be smothered within the walls of a dungeon--the thought that he would now have my daughter unmolested in his power was anguish in the extreme--I grew frantic--cursed him--the king--myself--every body--The Governor appeared very much astonished at the violence of my rage, and shook his head--he said nothing, but entering my name in a large register, and taking away every thing I had about me, except my money, conveyed me to a dungeon called the Tour de la Baziniere.
"Once more, courteous reader, I must request permission to pause awhile--The exertions I have used in bringing my story to this period, have rendered me unable to proceed on the instant--thou too may wish some respite from my tale of woe--take it then here while I compose my deranged mind, when I will again resume my story.
The M E M O I R S Continued.
"AFTER I had been searched and my name entered, as I before related, during which time I never ceased from the ravings of despair, two men were ordered to conduct me to my apartment, for such did they term this horrid place, and I was obliged to attend them through the gloomy mansion, until stopping at a door they opened it, and pointed for me to enter--I obeyed, for I too fatally felt that all resistance would be fruitless--on my entrance to the dungeon a tinder-box with a flint and candle were delivered to me, together with a bottle of water and a small loaf of bread.--after which the inexorable jailor without the appearance of the least concern, or uttering one single word, slamm'd to the iron doors of my prison, whose hollow and tremendous sound struck terror to my very soul, the horrible echo having died away, I could hear him secure the doors with several ponderous locks, bolts and chains.
"To you, whose unhappy lot it is to be in the way of finding these papers, it is needless to relate the agonies of mind I at first indured, for thou wilt too sensibly have experienced the sensations that oppress the bosom of a man shut up in this horrid place, without the least prospect of ever being restored to liberty again.
"That small aperture for light which now barely enables thee, in this woeful dungeon, to tell the day from night, was just sufficient, when I came a little to myself, to shew me, in one corner, a kind of wretched bedstead formed by planks, placed across bars of iron strongly fixed in the wall--upon this a bundle of straw was laid, and this was my only bed.
"Just as I was regreting the departure of cheering Day, who was hastily retiring before the approaches of Night, I heard a noise at the door of my cell--I felt alarm'd-- for awful and terrible were the clang of its tremendous fastenings--I knew not but my death might be thought requisite and that the moment was now arrived which was to put an end to all my misery--these thoughts I was, however soon convinced were idle, for upon the door being opened one of those men who had taken me to the cell came in with my supper--I attempted to enter into conversation with my stern jailor, but he put his finger in his mouth, as I supposed in token of being enjoined to silence--on my shewing
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.

"About six months after I had been in this horrid place, my Port-clef seemed all at once, to relax in his behaviour towards me--He would sometimes talk with me upon indifferent subjects--at others, listen to my tale, and express his pity for my sufferings, and sorrow that there was no prospect in being relieved from my misery--in this manner he continued to behave until I was fairly deceived.--I thought I had won him over to my interest, and full of the pleasing hope, I one day asked him whether it was possible for a person to make his escape from the Bastile--he readily answered my question, by replying in the affirmative--and related to me, by what methods one prisoner had escaped.
"This explicitness on his part gave me some confidence, and I now thought I had an opportunity of making one effort, therefore, slipping ten Louis d'ors, into hand, I asked him if he would help an unfortunate, innocent old man to effectuate his liberty.
"He seemed to hesitate--which I looked upon as a good omen, and proceeded to persuade him to consent, with all my rhetoric--this apparently succeeded--for he promised at last, to render every assistance he could, but observed, I must wait with patience for an opportunity.
"Not many days after, he opened my doors, one morning, with cautious silence, and with an air of secrecy, beckoned me to follow him--I did so, with a heart beating with fear, hope and joy--I had got to the bottom of the tower, in which I was confined, and had crossed the court-yard, without hearing or seeing a single soul, when all at once, two soldiers laid hold of me, from behind, and demanded where we were going--My Port-clef made no reply, but was out of sight in a moment--I remained still and silent, being too much surprised to utter a syllable, and from their not pursuing him, was fully convinced, that the whole was a premeditated scheme, and the Port-clef was a traitor.
"The soldiers seizing, carried me instantly to the Governor, who repremanded me sharply, for my, as he termed it, villainous attempt; an attempt which, he said, nothing but conscious guilt could have dictated, and he had now no doubt but it would shortly be discovered, and that I and my accomplices would meet that fate we merited, he would therefore advise me once more to make confession, and save myself by giving up them, as they had one already who might not be so tender of me, and then it would be too late.
"Even wounded as I was by my disappointment, I could not forbear smiling within myself at this last piece of intelligence, whose falsity was too gross to need a moment's reflection, and which, I knew could only be made use of by the Governor, by way of intimidation, and to drive me to impeach myself, or some other of any crime, it did not matter what--finding his efforts were ineffectual, he ordered two of his men to re-convey me back to my dungeon, and secure me more strongly than before.
"Whoe'er thou art, that finds these papers, and consequently will be then in that melancholy situation I now am suffering in, let me counsel thee never to be so far deceived, by salacious artifice, as to think these Port-clefs will ever favor your escape-- They are taught by the Governor to pretend sorrow for your sufferings, in order that thou mayest, by being taken in the act of escaping, be prevailed upon to make confessions of guilt.
"To obtain these confessions, every artifice is tried, and many here, as upon the rack, have been tortured into the confession of crimes they never knew, in hopes by that means they should escape from pain, and be relieved from despair; but which, will never fail to produce consequences equally dangerous and fatal, as they will instantly make
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.


XXXI.
A timely discovery.
WHILE De Montmorency was thus amusing himself with the Memoirs of his predecessor in his dismal abode, and which he was obliged to peruse by the greatest stealth, lest his keeper should discover and take them from him, the preparations for the marriage of Elise went on with alacrity.
No expence was spared to render the preparations as elegant and beautiful as the artists could invent--a costly and superb entertainment being thus prepared the polite part of the neighbourhood for miles round were invited to attend the celebration of the nuptials, nor were the peasantry to be excluded from their share in the approaching joy and festivity.
As the wedding-day approached nearer Elise felt her spirits began to fail and her melancholy encrease.
The image of De Montmorency upbraiding her for her inconstancy would frequently present itself to her tortured imagination, and she would lament having given her consent--but then the remembrance of his letter would drive these tender sentiments from her mind and make her fully determine to adhere to her resolution of marrying the Comte de Valgrave.
While Elise was suffering under the contention of these opposite sentiments, the day previous to the one appointed for her to give her hand to the Comte arrived--she was more than ordinarily dejected--with a view to shake it off she proceeded to take a walk in the pleasure grounds, where she wandered about in a solitary manner until she came in sight of the arbour in which De Montmorency had first avowed his passion for her--at the sight of which she stopped--all his tender protestations of love and vows of constancy rushed at once upon her mind.
"There (said she to herself) there is the spot in which the dear deceiver first attempted to assail my heart, impose upon my credulity, and animate my breast with a real, by the most bewitching vows of a feigned passion--O Montmorency, what offence had I committed that thou should take such pains to rob my soul of peace!--O fatal accident that brought me to thy acquaintance! and O rash folly that made me suppose you lov'd Elise!--why did I listen to his artful tale! or rather why do I now indulge the recollection?--Hence from my mind you vain reflections! and thou fatal spot, where I first gave ear to the false deluder and now remindest me of him, both now and henceforth with the utmost dread and caution will I avoid thee."
So saying she turned from her intended way, and went up a walk that led behind the arbour, in which she had not proceeded far when the sound of different voices arrested her attention--she stopped--the name of De Montmorency vibrated on her ear-- this was sufficient to induce Elise to listen, and she soon found it was her father and brother in conversation together--she drew towards the spot, and heard the latter of them distinctly say;
"But do you, Sir, mean to keep him in the Bastile after Elise is married to the Comte?"
"Certainly (replied St. Clair) as it will effectually prevent your sister and him from ever meeting again--especially as I do not consider De Montmorency's presence likely to encrease her happiness."
Elise had heard enough to make her completely wretched, yet she was determined to make every possible exertion to hear the remainder of their discourse; in doing of which she heard her father congratulate himself on his invention and happy success in having so well counterfeited De Montmorency's hand, as to that, and that alone, could they attribute the sudden change in Elise's sentiments, and her consenting to marry the Comte de Valgrave--Monsieur de St. Clair was not unacquainted with his particular knack of imitating hands, and it is generally supposed that in his profession of Farmier General he had not suffered so useful a qualification to remain dormant.
Thus, as it were, by accident was Elise informed of the deception that had been played her--a deception that had very nearly duped her into an union with a man she detested--Having learnt thus much she had no desire to hearken for more, and to prevent being discovered and suspected of having overheard their conversation, she hastened into the house and instantly retired to her own apartment, for the purpose of contemplating on the discovery she had made.
Here, being alone, she could give full scope to her reflections--all she had heard rush'd at once upon her mind and in the fullness of her heart, exclaim'd with rapture-- "My De Montmorency then is still faithful!"--this swell of joy was only momentary, a sudden dampness seized her, and bursting into tears; "But, ah! said she, he is in the Bastile! for loving me he is shut up in a horrid prison! and shall Elise then break her vows to thee?--O never! never! perish the injurious thought!"
How to avoid the marriage with the Comte de Valgrave now engrossed her whole soul--it was appointed for the morrow--there was no time to be lost--necessity made her bold, and there appearing but one expedient she resolved to put it in execution.
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.
XXXII.
A marriage stopp'd for the want of the
Bride.
THE morning came which was fondly imagined by the St. Clairs? would complete their wishes, and prove a day of rejoicing at the castle--every thing was prepared, and they arose with the lark.
The Comte de Valgrave also was already up and dressed, waiting with fond expectation for his charming bride--Elise alone was wanting--she not coming, her woman was ordered to hasten her down stairs to the company, who were already assembled in the saloon.
She went for that purpose, but speedily returned with the intelligence that Elise was not there--this appeared strange, but they thought it possible she might have taken a walk in the garden--they sent thither accordingly to seek her--The servant came back with the information that she was not there.
"Not there?" exclaimed Monsieur de St. Clair, petrified with astonishment.
The Comte de Valgrave appeared much affected at the intelligence, and the whole company were alarmed at her unaccountable absence--they each resolved to partake in the enquiry, and immediately set out different ways in the Park to seek for her--their search was in vain--she was not to be found.
Monsieur de St. Clair was convinced she had eloped to avoid the marriage; he was choaked with rage, nor could any one persuade him to listen to reason--he ordered his horse to be saddled, determined to pursue and bring her back--his son was ready to accompany him, and they set off together--After riding a considerable time, and making a thousand fruitless enquiries, they were under the necessity of returning without her-- The wedding was of course deferred--the rejoicings were turned into sadness, and the various preparations were found useless and unnecessary.
This disappointment of his fondest wishes made Monsieur de St. Clair almost distracted--he cursed--he swore--and regardless of the number of persons present, imprecated a thousand curses on the head of his daughter.
The company were disappointed of their promised entertainments; yet, they seemed by their looks not sorry for the disappointment, and returned to their respective homes, applauding the spirit of Elise in refusing to sacrifice herself to the Comte de Valgrave, who was universally disliked for his haughty temper, and severe disposition.
The whole family of the St. Clairs? were overwhelmed with confusion--different sensations agitated their breasts for the loss of Elise--Madame trembled lest some misfortune had happened to her child--young St. Clair's pride was wounded at being defeated in an alliance with nobility; and her father was raving for vengeance at being discomfited in his favorite plan--They, however, determined to neglect no means to find out what was become of her; the servants were ordered to disperse themselves different ways, while father and son retired to consult upon what would be the best plan to adopt themselves.
XXXIII.
A trial of constancy.
THE Memoirs which De Montmorency had found and perused, increased his fortitude-- he had not suffered a moiety of the misfortunes as the writer of them, and perhaps it might never be his unhappy lot to bear such accumulated woes. To peruse these papers was his constant amusement--to read them and sigh for his father and his Elise was all he had to do or think of--as he was pondering over them one evening, the doors of his dungeon were silently opened, and a letter was thrown into him--the person who threw it in, shut the doors again so suddenly, as to prevent his seeing who it was--surprised at this action, he broke open the letter, and read the following few words:
"Stranger,
"To that person who should procure thee thy liberty, could'st thou be grateful?--
Write thy answer; I have enclosed thee pencil and paper, and will come for it to-morrow morning--It will be your own fault if you sleep the next night within these walls."
De Montmorency was astonished at its contents--he would not believe that he read it right--when he was convinced of this, he suspected some treacherous design-- such a one as the old man, in his memoirs, bid him guard against--again he thought this was very unlike to his adventure--it might possibly be intended to grant him his liberty, and should he now decline it through over-caution, it might never happen again; therefore, in the end, he resolved to believe that the writer of the note was his friend, and treat it accordingly--Having come to this resolution, he immediately wrote the following answer:
"Benevolent Stranger,
"Would thou procure me the enjoyment of that invaluable blessing, my life should be devoted to thy service--I cannot be ungrateful."
The next morning early the prison doors were opened with the same caution and a hand put in, which conceiving was for the purpose of receiving the answer, De Montmorency gave it--upon which the doors were immediately shut, without his being able to see the person that took it.
Anxious and impatient our hero counted over the lingering moments, which seemed to move with more than common slowness--Night, which he had never before covetted, now seemed unwilling to shroud the face of day--it came at length.
At the dead hour of midnight, when silence with all the gloomy horrors reigned, he heard soft footsteps on the stairs--they advanced to his dungeon--a tide of joy rushed into his bosom--the doors of his dungeon opened, and some person entered--he was all terror and agitation, for the darkness of the night prevented his discovering who was his guest, until a dark lanthorn was produced, and then, to his inexpressible astonishment, he beheld the lady whom he had addressed on his first coming to the Bastile, and whom he then thought to be the daughter of the Governor.
A modest blush of confusion prevented her at first from breaking silence which De Montmorency observing he fell upon his knees and invoked a thousand blessings upon her for this extension of her goodness and humanity. Roused, in some measure, by this address from her apparent confusion.
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.

XXXIV.
Prison walls yield to the spirit of Liberty--A restoration to freedom--and a meeting as happy as unexpected.
IT was about this time that the people of France conceived their monarch had encroached upon that power with which their ancestors had thought proper to invest their sovereign-- this they were determined to submit to no longer--nay they considered the original power too much and were resolved to partake of that glowing liberty which is the natural right of all mankind.
This, though it may be construed into rebellion by those who bask in the sunshine of royal favour, and consequently draw their riches and importance from supporting kingly power, was nothing more, in the eye of Reason, than what they had an undoubted right to effect--for this determination was not the clamour of the unenlightened rabble, but the firm resolution of some of the first men in the kingdom, supported by all ranks and descriptions, and countenanced by a prince of the blood royal, whose conduct, on that memorable occasion, must be remembered with admiration wherever Freedom erects her standard, or Liberty dispenses her blessings.
That some should be found ready to obstruct this glorious struggle will not be a matter of surprise as long as Interest is known to bear sovereign sway in many breasts-- nor that some excesses should be committed by the lower order of a people emerging into freedom from a state bordering upon slavery at all astonishing, the wonder will be to after ages, how so great a Revolution was obtained at so cheap a rate.
To enter into the particulars of their various struggles is a pleasing task for the future historian's pen, to him we leave it, and if he has a spark of liberty glowing in his soul he cannot fail of doing justice to their cause.
The Montmorencys had long been celebrated for their patriotism, and well known as the friends of their country--at this period, and on this trying occasion the name was not forgot--enquiries were made after Hubert's retreat, and being known messengers were instantly dispatch'd to request he would join their cause and aid it with his presence and assistance.
Hubert had long given up all worldly considerations, and the recent loss of his son made him much more indifferent than ever--nevertheless this flattering application of his fellow-subjects to join in their emancipation from monarchal tyranny roused his dormant spirits--he resolved to comply with their wishes and it afforded him exquisite
satisfaction to be thought able, at the close of his life, to be of service to his country and to be judged worthy its confidence--his life could not be ended to more advantage.
Quitting therefore his retreat once again he hastened towards Paris, and was received with open arms--his name was a tower of strength and he was honoured with a considerable command in the national militia.
It was his advice and assistance that put the finishing stroke to despotic power. The Bastile he had always look'd upon with aversion--he beheld it as inimical to justice, and a disgrace to his country. Such being his sentiments he felt no hesitation in assenting to its destruction--four hundred men were immediately sent to take possession of it--
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.

forced open--at the farther end of which they beheld a youth sitting in a melancholy posture--he seemed not to comprehend what they were about, or consider them as his deliverers--upon being required he however came out, and judge what was our hero's wonder, joy, and astonishment when under this disguise he saw and knew his beloved, his adored Elise--regardless of the numbers present they flew into each other's arms:
"It is, it is my Elise! (exclaimed he as he pressed the enraptured maid to his breast) now kind Heaven amply rewards me for all that is past! this happy moment cancels an age of pain. But how, my dearest Elise, how came you thus disguised?--how was it possible that I should find you thus in confinement?--O! I have a thousand things to ask and tell you of since I saw you last--but since we thus have happily met we now will never part again."
Notwithstanding Hubert partook of his son's felicity, he thought it prudent and necessary to put an end to their tender congratulations for the present--for which purpose he reminded him of the glorious cause in which they were embark'd, and charg'd him never to forget, when engaged in the service of his country, that his own private concerns merited but a secondary consideration.
De Montmorency felt the force of his father's remark and instantly resumed his share in completing that task they had so successfully began--Elise persisted in following the steps of her lover and keeping close by his side during the whole business, while her presence made him proceed with more than ordinary animation until every dungeon was searched and every captive released--the gates and every fastening being destroyed Hubert prepared to retire with his followers, leaving the utter demolition of the walls to the enthusiastic spirit of the populace; who unanimously joined to undertake the laborious task.--That glorious work being atchieved which after ages must admire and applaud, our hero again took his beloved Elise to his arms, and then presented her to Hubert, who now received her with great tenderness and affection--they both felt a strong curiosity to know how it was possible she should have become a prisoner in the Bastile, yet as the place was by no means appropriate for entering into a long detail they forebore any farther enquiry until they arrived at the Hotel where apartments had been prepared for the residence of Hubert.
Here, after taking some refreshment, of which they stood much in need, De Montmorency informed them of all that had happened to him from his leaving home to his being conveyed to the Bastile, the reason for which he had never been able to develope--this drew Elise to her part of the story, and though she felt some compunction in exposing the cruelty, not to say villainy, of her father, she could not conceal any thing from her lover who had been so basely treated on her account--she therefore related how she had been imposed upon, by what means she discovered the imposition and learnt that he was in the Bastile--not only ashamed at having consented to marry the Comte de Valgrave she was resolved to avoid it--this she found could only be done by quitting her father's house, and to accomplish that she found much difficulty, at length, trusting her attendant whom she had ever found faithful, she procured that man's attire--rising very early in the morning and putting it on, by the assistance of her maid she got to the next village and from thence proceeded post to Paris--if any pursuit had taken place after her the disguise effectually prevented her being discovered. To see De Montmorency, from what she had heard of the Bastile, she feared would be impossible--she resolved
however to partake of his fate--this was not difficult--a few treasonable words spoken in
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.

XXXV.
A compliance with a request of the dead--and a
visit to a Convent.
IN the mean time, our hero recollected the earnest request of the old Prisoner, and resolved to make all the enquiries possible--He proceeded first to the Comte de S----: On enquiring for him he was informed that he had been long since dead, having been killed in a duel with the brother of a sister whom he had debauched. His widow, however, was living, and De Montmorency supposing that some information might be gained from her on the subject, begged to be introduced to her--He opened his business in as delicate a manner as possible--The Comtesse pleased with his address, gave him all the information in her power, which amounted to this--That among her husband's papers she had found a short memorandum, which led her to suppose, that the lady he wished to find out had made her escape from his house, and retired to a Convent. Our hero thanked her for the information and instantly retired--It was now his care to enquire at every Convent in Paris--He did so, and at last his endeavours were crowned with success--There was a lady of the description, he pointed out, in the Convent of St. Catharine's.
He begged to be introduced to her on business of the utmost importance--she came--a pale melancholy was fixed in her countenance, which still was lovely in the extreme--De Montmorency being satisfied, from her answers to his interrogatories, that this was the old man's daughter, proceeded to execute his office in as gentle a manner as possible--By degrees he prepared her for her father's death, and then presenting her the pacquet, he had found in the Bastile, took his leave.
The next day he called again--She was ill, and confined to her bed, but begged to see him--She thanked him for his kindness, and related to him the events that had happened to her since her father's confinement. That almost distracted at the treatment her parent had received, she had fallen ill--On her recovery, she endeavoured by every means to escape--This she found very difficult, at first, but at length she effected it-- after experiencing a variety difficulties she got back to their villa in Narbonne, from which the Comte de S---- had forced her away--There she remained in the most torturing suspence a whole year, and no intelligence being received of her father, she settled all her worldly concerns--left the servants in the house, and gave them directions, should any news ever arrive from her father, where to find her--She then retired to the Convent, and resolving to spend the remainder of her days there, took the veil-- Exhausted with the exertions used in speaking, our hero took his leave--A few days after he enquired respecting her health and was informed that her father's account of his distresses had made such an impression upon her that she expired the day after he had given her the papers.
"Peace to thee, hapless maid, (said he, as he returned home,) a happier lot awaits
thee, no doubt, in a better world than this!--where thou wilt find rest and peace from all thy sorrows."
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.
XXXVI.
The Conclusion.
FOR some time the lovers waited with the most anxious expectation for Monsieur de St. Clair's answer--Elise's affections were riveted upon De Montmorency, she resolved to be his at all events, yet her heart panted to be reconciled to her parents--At length the wish'd-for letter came, but its contents were very far from adding to Elise's felicity, for it contain'd her father's keenest reproaches, and denounced his heaviest curses on her head if she did not return instantly home.
Although Elise was conscious that her wishes had far out-ran her hopes yet she could not help feeling some disappointment at this cruel epistle of her father's and letting fall some tears at the harshness of his epithets.
De Montmorency, however, was no otherwise displeased with the letter than its giving him some little apprehension lest it should shake the resolution of his Elise, for he
wanted an opportunity to prove that his attachment to her was disinterested and that----
He loved her for herself alone.
The opportunity was now fortunately given him.
"Well, my Elise, (said he) since your father peremptorily refuses his consent to our happiness, let us shew him that we can be so without it--that our felicity is in ourselves, and our minds above the allurements of riches--let us be a living example that that there is as much, if not more, true happiness in an humble cot as in a sumptuous palace."
This tenderness on the part of her lover was a soothing cordial to Elise's troubled breast--she felt herself delighted--nevertheless the tears continued to flow from her lovely eyes, but they were no longer the tears of grief but those of joy--De Montmorency quickly kissed them away, and by his tender assiduities soon effaced all traces of her father's alarming threats and unkindness from her mind.
Hubert too well knew the inconveniencies arising from the want of fortune not to regret Monsieur de St. Clair had refused his consent--he had also fondly hoped that his son would have restored the former splendor of the De Montmorencys, which hopes would, in a great measure, be destroyed by his marrying Elise under the present circumstances--it is true his family pride was much gratified by the recent summons of his countrymen to aid the cause of freedom, and he doted too much upon his son to give him willingly one moment's uneasiness; agreeable therefore to the promise he had made previous to their application to Monsieur de St. Clair he consented to their nuptuals, and they were married the next morning.
Hubert was himself warmly attached to Elise and he considered it as a happiness that he could boast of two such children.
De Montmorency's joy was in the extreme, united to Elise he would have considered it a degree of heresy to suppose he had a wish ungratified--nor need we dwell upon the observation that she who had forsaken her parents and home for the sake of her lover was perfectly happy when she had made him her husband.
During this time neither Hubert nor his son were inattentive to the duties of the glorious cause in which they were engaged--they resolved not to quit it while their
country required their assistance--The standard of Freedom being once firmly erected they determined to pay a visit to Mons. de Valancy, and then return to Hubert's delightful cot--in its pleasant shades intending to spend the remainder of their lives, and to partake of that unutterable bliss which alone proceeds from mutual affection and esteem--a bliss, which neither the possession of wealth, titles, or power can of themselves bestow.
T H E E N D.
"The first object that presented itself to my view, was the Comte at breakfast--at sight of me he started from his chair, and turned pale with conscious guilt.
