THE
Imposters Detected:
OR, THE
LIFE of a PORTUGUESE.
IN WHICH
The Artifices and Intrigues of ROMISH
PRIESTS are humorously displayed.
THE WHOLE
Interspersed with several curious and entertaining
Anecdotes, relating to some of the principal
Personages of the Kingdom of PORTUGAL.
In TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.
THE
AUTHOR's PREFACE
IF I thought I was writing for the public, I should have given an account of the motives that induced me to present it with the following history; but as these sheets are intended wholly for my own use, I do not think I am accountable to any one. It is to my paper alone that I intrust these adventures to be preserved, to refesh my memory with upon occasion; and the better to conceal them from my own countrymen, I have written them in a language little understood amongst us. What might appear a piece of affectation in any other country than this, is here more prudent than may be at first imagined. Every one knows how much our Portuguese are addicted to superstition, and the great restraint we lie under from the inquisition; consequently that one cannot be too much upon ones guard against both the one and the other.
I am not, however, under any apprehension that the judicial part of my readers will blame the design of this work. We know that all the vices of mankind owe a tribute to censure, and nothing but popular prejudice has hitherto exempted a particular class of men from their share in it, as they perhaps deserve it more than the rest; I mean the monks and clergy of this kingdom, who have become so powerful and formidable amongst us, that our neighbours have by way of derision given us the name of, The Kingdom of monks. It is against the vices of this set of men that I have chiefly levelled in this work; not from any animosity or private pique to them, but from that general abhorrence which very honest man ought to have for wickedness wherever he meets with it. And after all, I can see no reason for exempting those gentlemen from the censure that every one has a right to pass on the vices of mankind. Is it from the sacredness of their profession, which the most part of them dishonour by their lives and actions? Or is the nobleness of their character, which ought to induce them to live more uprightly than the rest of mankind, more sacred than that of kings, who are the living, representatives of God on earth, and yet whose vices history has not spared? Or will it be said that it is through fear of exposing the profession itself to contempt? a fear as ridiculous as ill founded. Is the magisterial function less respectable because there has been, and ever will be, some iniquitous judges, whose vices have been exposed? Are kings less honoured and obeyed because history teaches us that some of them have been very vicious and abandoned? No! for on the contrary, this mixture of good and evil makes us more admire the watchfulness and providence of God over his church, which still continues to subsist, notwithstanding the scandalous lives and behaviour of the greatest part of its ministers, and more esteem those who worthily fill the duties of their calling. None but womanish and weak minds will take offence at the stories related in this little work, concerning some of our bad ecclesiasticks. However, I shall spare them the trouble by keeping these sheets concealed, not that I imagine the opinions of such as these would any weight with persons of a judicious way of thinking, who look upon men according to the uprightness of their conduct, and the rank or station they hold in life.
THE
Editor's Advertisement.
IT is a just observation that most things owe their discovery to chance. This little history, with which we now present the public, is a proof of it. Being obliged some few years ago to take a journey to Padua, I happened to arrive at the time that they were exposing to sale the library of the celebrated Dr. Algaberti: amongst the lot of books which I purchased, I met with the following MSS. which at that time I thought of little signification ; but having given it to two French gentlemen of my acquaintance to peruse, they thought so well of it, that they engaged me to consent to let it be published. This was attended with some trouble, as it was very difficult to find good French printers. I searched a long time but without success; at length, wearied with their repeated importunities, I determined to put it into the hands of the best workmen I could meet with in the country. But notwithstanding the case my friends took to revise the sheets as they came from the press, it was impossible to prevent some few errors from escaping them; however, as these are for the most part very trivial, it is hoped that the reader will overlook them, in consideration of the singularity and amusement he will meet with in the work itself.
 I.
Ranuncio's birth and education.
DON PEDRO D'ALETES, after having made a considerable fortune in the Brazils, returned to Lisbon, his native country, where he married a lady named Donna Hortensia, who brought him a great many children: of this numerous offspring I was unfortunately the seventh. As the laws of our country left me no room to hope for any considerable portion where there was so numerous a family, my father endeavoured to make me amends for this caprice of fortune, by giving me an education that might supply the place of larger possessions.
He did not act as most parents too frequently do, who trust the education of their children to a set of men who make a kind of trade of it; but as he wisely considered it as a second life, he resolved to take the charge of my instruction upon himself.
To a thorough knowledge of the Belles Letters he joined what was something extraordinary in a man of his station, an easy and simple method of teaching them. After having himself put me in a capacity of understanding most of our best authors, he procured me proper masters to teach me history, geography, music, and the languages mostly used throughout Europe: in a word, he let me want nothing that he thought necessary to form what the world calls a compleat gentleman.
Being endowed by nature with a quick apprehension, I soon made myself master of these accomplishments, and at the age of seventeen saw myself in a condition to appear in the world with some degree of consideration. But my natural volatility made it not easy for me to fix upon the particular way of life I should embrace. Don Pedro my father, who knew the bad consequences of precipitating youth, was not very pressing with me on that head. On the contrary he set before me the necessity of well weighing these matters before coming to a conclusion, and left me at full liberty to make such choice as should appear most agreeable to me. But that I might be sufficiently prepared against that time, he made me go through the several classes. After this I read law; and as he was very desirous to have me well instructed in the principles of religion, (which he always considered as an essential thing to every one who would live like a Christian, and an honest man) he procured me a master for theology.
The person he pitched upon for this purpose was not one of those pedants by profession who take up three or four years of a pupil's time in filling his head with an useless heap of school jargon, but was a truly venerable old man, one grown grey in the study of the sacred writings, and who, to the deepest erudition, added a life of most exemplary piety.
This worthy person, whom my father made choice of for my preceptor, was called Don Poketos, and came of a very good family in the province of Estremadura. In his early days he renounced his country and friends, to devote himself to a life of apostolic labor, intending to end his days in the Indies, in the quality of a missionary : but some revolutions that happened in the country he had chosen for his residence, obliged him to leave it, and return to Europe, with an intention to settle in Portugal : but his persecutions did not cease here : for almost as soon as he came to Lisbon, he had new ones to encounter from the monks and clergy, who, unable to bear the tacit reproach they received from his holy and edifying manner of living, they sought occasion, in his great learning, and the warm zeal he shewed for the instruction of youth, to work his ruin. Thus does the hellish fiend frequently turn the very virtues of good men into a means for their persecution: in short, he was summoned before the inquisition, upon an accusation of heresy, and a design to pervert the morals of youth.
Don Poketos would most certainly have appeared, in order to justify himself from these villainous calumnies, and confound all his enemies, by the most undeniable proofs of his innocence, had he not been prevented from doing it by some of the best and most worthy people in Lisbon, who remonstrated to him, that it would be much better to keep out of the way for some little time, and thereby elude the malice and fury of his enemies ; they promising to employ, during his absence, the duke of Vasconcel, who had a particular veneration and esteem for him, to extricate him from this affair. Poketos suffered himself to be persuaded by their intreaties, and kept himself concealed for some months; at the end of which he was suffered to appear again in public, but on condition that he should neither teach nor preach for the future. It was about this time that my father became acquainted with him, and engaged him to come home to our house, where he intrusted him with the case of our education; an offer that this good man accepted with more joy than if the king had nominated him to a bishoprick.
He taught us all successively, and we profited so well by his lessons, that I may venture to say without vanity, few families in Lisbon were better versed in their religion. I studied under him for the space of two years, when finding the rest of my brothers all provided for, and myself at an age to enter into the world, I began to think in earnest of the way of life I should embrace. The case that had been taken of my education left me abundant room for chusing. The knowlege of the mathematics and science of arms, fitted me for a good officer. I already knew enough of the law to make a tolerable magistrate, and of theology to qualify me for a good divine. The latter of these professions seemed to suit the best with my inclination. This was the fruit of the instructions I had received from Don Poketos. There was but one thing which made me hesitate, which was the strict purity of life required in those who embrace that state, and which, as my venerable preceptor often told me, was such as might make even the angels themselves tremble. This consideration kept me for some time in suspence; and an accident that afterwards happened, which gave me an opportunity of being personally acquainted with the manner of living practised nowa-days by those in the monastic state, gave me a greater disgust to it, than before I had had an inclination.
 II.
Ranucio falls ill. The manner in which he is treated.
MY father having sent me a little way into the country on some business, which he was prevented from finishing himself, I made such dispatch, that at my return I was seized with a violent pleurisy. When I came home I found nobody in the house. My father was at a country-seat which we had, about six miles from Lisbon, and where we used frequently to pass three or four days at a time. As for my mother, she was upon a religious party with three or four female zealots of her acquaintance, to the recolet fathers in the Campo do Cural.
I was scarcely lain down on the bed in order to get a little ease, before in she came with her four holy sisters, who having heard I was taken ill, thought proper to pay me a visit. They began the conversation by a tedious sermon on the duty of resignation to the will of Providence, and the little value to be set on this; ending with a most serious and pressing exhortation to confess myself as soon as possible.
I told them there was time enough for that, and thought that it would be proper in the first place to send for a physician. Upon this they began to read me a second lecture; so that, to be quit of them, I was obliged to promise to do just as they would have me.
As soon as they were gone, I earnestly intreated my mother to send away in all haste for a physician, as I should have more confidence in a single prescription, than in all the sermons of these female bigots. We had a very skilful physician that belonged to the family, called Dr. Campanello; but my mother, who was so very religious, that even in her household affairs she would do nothing without the advice of her ghostly directors, had dismissed Campanello, to introduce one Dr. Carmuelo.
This latter had a pension from the clergy, in acknowledgment of the services he had in
done them on many occasions, and still continues to do them. To this man my mother sent, desiring him to come to me immediately; but received for answer, that he could not possibly come till the next morning, because he was taken up with dispatching a fat canon, who had been recommended to him for a stroke of his office by four young licenciates, who only waited for his death to be put in possession of his benefices.
I found myself therefore obliged to bear my disorder with patience. Carmuelo was as punctual in his promise to my mother, as he had been to that he had given the young licenciates ; for the next morning, the very instant he had put the canon in possession of the other world, he came to our house. After having spent a considerable time in enquiring into the symptoms of my disorder, he very gravely gave it as his opinion, that it was a pleurisy.
There was no occasion to be a very great physician to find that out; but he must certainly have been a very notable assassin, that could prescribe in the manner he did. He ordered that I should take none but cooling medicines, and that all my drink should be cooled with ice. When I heard him give these orders, I thought I heard my death-doom. He saw my consternation, and thinking to make me easy, "Seignor Ranucio, said he, fear nothing from my prescriptions. Tho they may appear a little new to you, and out of the common road, they are not the less efficacious on that account; and the clergy, to whom I have the honour of being a pensionary, have always found great benefit from them."
"I sincerely believe what you say, good doctor Carmuelo, replied I. You work for them ; I know it : but you are not likely to enrich them by my funeral, I assure you ; nor to send me after the princess of Brazil, whom you murdered the other day by the same way of treatment."
"If the medicines I gave her, replied he, had not the desired effect, that was no fault of mine. The small-pox, of which she died, is one of those obstinate disorders, that, like spoiled children, will never stir out of the way you have once let them take; it has hitherto been accustomed to cordials, and cannot reconcile itself to the modern practice, so directly
opposite to the former. It does not relish our prescriptions, and will sooner carry off the sick, than it will suffer them to be cured in our way; but that does not make us in the least more pliable; we are resolved to be as obstinate as this impertinent distemper, and will stand out against all its efforts, till we have at length compelled it to yield to our medicines.
"It is just the same, added, he, with respect to the present disorder. The remedies I have ordered for you are doubtless out of the common road; but you will not find the less benefit from them on that account: besides, they are directly conformable to the new system of physic now adapted." He concluded all these fine reasonings with a Greek aphorism, which was as suitable to the subject as the medicines he had just ordered me were to my disorder: in short, the result of this visit was, that I determined not to observe his orders in one single instance.
 III.
Ranucio recovers; to whom the cure is attributed: what happened
to him afterwards.
IN the mean while my mother's female friends, who had paid me the visit the evening before, lost no time in spreading abroad the news of my disorder. The women, especially your religious ones, are the best trumpeters in the world. In twelve hours time there was not a convent in Lisbon that did not know of my illness, with all the circumstances attending it ; and as Donna Hortensia my mother had a general acquaintance among them, there was a continual concourse of monks at the house all the next day, who came to comfort her under her affliction, and to administer all the relief in their power to me.
In this pious intention they had brought a whole cargo of their most valuable and approved relicks, and were just going to make a trial of their efficacy upon me, when, unfortunately for them, my father, who had heard of my disorder, came in upon us. The antipathy which they knew he had both for them and their holy trumpery, put a sudden damp to their zeal: therefore, contenting themselves with giving me a pious exhortation to resignation and patience, they took their leaves, to the no small regret of Donna Hortensia, who expected no less than an infallible cure.
My father's first care was to send away for Dr. Campanello, who came in an instant. He told us, he was just come from the Cordelier's convent, where he had been three days attending the guardian, whom at length, with the utmost difficulty, he had recovered of a violent surfeit from an over debauch.
Campanello did not amuse himself, as his brother physician had done, with reading a long dissertation upon the nature of my disorder, but immediately set about applying the proper remedies to it. He ordered me to have a large quantity of blood taken away directly, which was done in his presence. I found myself somewhat eased by the operation. It was repeated a second time that day, but with not altogether so good an effect as at first ; therefore, the next morning, he ordered me to be bled again a third time: but I still grew worse. The doctor then thought it proper, for fear of a sudden surprise, that I should settle my conscience, which I did with great spirit and resignation: and indeed it was high time; for I had scarce finished, when I fell into a deep swoon, which made every one present give me over for dead.
You may easily imagine the grief and distress that the whole family were in; nothing was to be heard but cries and lamentations. My mother especially was in a condition to have melted the most obdurate heart. Campanello, touched with her distress, and the melancholy condition he saw me in, exhausted all the power of his art to bring me out of this deadly swoon; but all his endeavours proved fruitless.
My unhappy mother no longer knew what saint to have recourse to: there was not a single one in heaven, from the highest to the lowest, to whom she had not recommended me in an especial manner: at length, not knowing what to do for me, she bethought herself of a last expedient, which I relate in this place, only to shew how far a mother's fondness for her child, and her great love for the clergy, may carry her. As she looked upon me already lost to this world, she promised, in the great excess of her grief, that, if I recovered from this illness, I should immediately enter into the order of St. Francis.
No sooner had she made this vow, than, as chance would have it, I gave some signs of life. She immediately cry'd out, "A miracle, a miracle!" and, throwing her arms about my neck, earnestly exhorted me to ratify the vow she had just made on my account. I was still so lethargic, that I did not understand a syllable of what she said to me. All that I could do in the low and weak condition I was in, was to testify my gratitude to her for the care and concern she shewed for me, by tenderly pressing her hand: this she took for a sign of my concurrence with her in what she had been doing.
And now the doctor seeing me recovered from my swoon, redoubled his assiduity, and ordered me some medicines that met with the desired success, insomuch that, a few hours afterwards, (thanks to heaven and his great skill!) I found myself considerably better.
Donna Hortensia attributed this happy change wholly to the power of the saint, who doubtless had been no obstacle to it. I now began to recover health and strength every day; so that in a very little time, by a strict observance of the regimen prescribed me by Campanello, I became perfectly well. To recruit me more effectually, it was proposed that I should take a jaunt into the country. I have already observed, that we had a country seat a few miles from Lisbon: but being situated on the river-side, it was imagined the air might not be so wholsome for me, as I was just upon recovery; and therefore my father asked me, if I should like to go and pass a few months at his brother the licentiate's. This ecclesiastic had one of the best livings in the diocese he belonged to, and situated in a most delightful and healthy spot. I readily embraced this proposal, which was the more agreeable to me, as I still found a propensity in myself to a sacerdotal life, and had now an opportunity of observing how those of that profession lived.
Donna Hortensia, who knew the curate to be as great an enemy to the monks as she herself was bigotted to them, used all her endeavours to dissuade me from taking this journey.
"My dear child, said she, you are but just recovered from an illness which we all thought would have deprived us of you for ever, and you begin already to talk of leaving us! Can you have forgot the promise you made to God, when he snatched you from the arms of death? Consider, child, you have much serious matters to think of, than going to amuse yourself at your uncle's."
This discourse was alike mysterious to my father and myself. He desired my mother to explain herself; which she did, by relating to him the pretended miracle that had been wrought upon me while I lay in my trance. It would be difficult to express my father's surprise and mine at hearing this. Don Pedro asked me, if I had really made any such promise. I assured him I had never so much as entertained the least notion of it ; and that even supposing I had done any thing of the kind during my being senseless, (which by the way was hardly possible) I knew enough to know that such sort of promises can in no wise be binding.
"So then, Madam, said my father, turning very gravely towards his wife, your ghostly directors have thought proper to make use of you to dispose of my son for me! But, pray tell me, are children given us to dispose of in that manner? Do you think the power that nature has given us over them is to make us treat them like savages? No, no; we are their parents only to render them as happy as we possibly can: and what happiness do you imagine your
son could find in a state, where now-a-days there is less charity and goodness to be met with than in the world! But, whatever may be your engagements, I declare, for my part, that I will never consent that a son of mine should turn monk. I have too great a regard for religion, and too much value for my blood, to suffer it to mingle with a set of men, who, the most of them, have been led, through ignorance or resentment, to take up a way of life where they can live at the expence of the fools who admire them."
Donna Hortensia was sensibly piqued at these last words of my father's, which he pronounced with some degree of earnestness ; however she made no reply, but gave him the hearing, with all that deference and respect which every good wife owes her husband. But as I knew that nothing is so disagreeable to the women in general as to talk against their father-confessors, I endeavoured all in my power to give the conversation another turn: but Don Pedro would not be diverted from his purpose.
"My son, said he, addressing himself to me, listen attentively to what I am about to say to you; it is of more importance than you may perhaps imagine. Many a child curses his parents within the walls of a cloister, that might in the world have bestowed a thousand blessings on them, had they talked to him with the same sincerity and frankness that I am about to do to you.
"It cannot be denied, continued, he, that the monastic life, in its first institution, was the highest point of religious perfection. In my opinion it must require the efforts of a virtue more than human, and a superior portion of grace, to determine to abandon friends and relations, to follow Christ, to make their own wills and desires subservient to those of others, to renounce all worldly possessions and voluntarily to relinquish all the innocent pleasures and amusements of this life, to buy themselves in a holy retreat. And I cannot reflect, without admiration, on those pious recluses, who, in the first ages of the church, renounced the most brilliant fortunes, to spend their days in barren deserts, wholly taken up with the service of God and the care of their own souls. Such were the primitive Anchorites, and such those famous Lauri, where thousands of holy priests were seen disputing for the kingdom of heaven, and striving who should excel the other in suffering the greatest hardships and self-denial to merit a place there. The sweet odor they shed in those places, till then waste and uninhabited, drew to them an innumerable concourse of disciples; and, by a kind of divine metamorphosis, desarts were changed in towns, and towns became desarts.
"What was then beheld in the East, has since been seen by our ancestors in Europe. The Benedicts, the Bernards, the Dominicks, the Francis?, and the Brunois, in imitation of these primitive hermits, made disciples, to whom they transferred a portion of that love, for penance and self-denial, with which they themselves were actuated. But these disciples, instead of living in desarts, as their holy founders had done, thought to improve their practice by settling in towns, where they might be more at hand to instruct men, and gather in a more copious harvest of souls for the Lord. But here their intention was more praise-worthy than prudent. Indeed the holiness of their own lives procured them a great number of disciples. The monasteries were crowded, and soon grew rich by the largesses of of the faithful, who made an offer of all their possessions upon entering into them. But this very liberality was what first corrupted the priests; and pride, that incurable canker-worm of riches, soon crept in amongst them: every one now began to be desirous of being distinguished from the rest, in proportion to the fortune he had brought with him to the convent: distinctions soon introduced indolence, libertinism, and all the other vices, of which pride is, as it were, the stem. Hence arose the general corruption and depravity of manners now found amongst the monks. We no longer see in them that antient spirit of humility which made them consider each other as brethren and the children of one common Parent. They now assume airs of grandeur and importance. The generals of the order despise the provincials, the provincials look down upon the guardians, the guardians ill-treat and oppress their inferiors, and the
monks, because they are in orders, scarce deign to look upon their lay-brethren, but devote them to the most servile offices. This same pride is the cause of the cabals we see so frequent amongst them for acquiring the most lucrative posts in the monastery, at the expence of others. Hence their mutual jealousies, which lead them to do one another all the prejudice in their power. Hence these animosities and quarrels, which are too often attended with more fatal consequences. In a word, to this is owing the many scandalous excesses that make those who enter into the monastic state, find in it a hell, instead of the heavenly asylum they expected, where they might quietly work out their salvation. After this, Madam, continued he, turning to my mother, I leave you to judge, whether any parent, who has the least sense of religion, ought not rather to use all his endeavours to persuade his child from entering into such a state, than to hurry them into rashly, as you seem inclinable to do ?"
I listened to all this with the greatest attention, and thought my father's remarks very just and instructive. As for my mother, she retired to her own apartment, for fear of being obliged to hear a second part of this panegyric on the monks, with whom, if I may venture to use the expression, she was quite infatuated. My father and I were now left alone, to my no small satisfaction. He was in a cüe for talking; and, as I had not very frequent opportunities of receiving instruction from him, I was glad to embrace this that offered itself: and, to keep up the conversation, "I think, Sir, said I, you seem perfectly well acquainted with the monastic life, and yet I have never observed you to be much conversant with the brotherhood; this, I own, a little surprises me." "My dear son, replied he, "tis for that very reason, that I have so little connections with them: their acquaintance is fit only for narrow minds, or weak women. Accordingly, you will never see them associate with any but such, because they know very that those are their surest marks."
He then proceeded to give me a relation of the many tricks and deceits practised by these holy cut-purses, which afforded me no small diversion: and I believe he would have continued the detail for a considerable time longer, had not the count d'azevedo sent for him upon some particular business relating to the court, which he was obliged immediately to attend.
 IV.
Ranucio is sollicited to turn monk.
A natural and diverting picture of the monastic life.
AFTER my father was gone, I went up to my chamber, with an intention to pass away an hour or two in reading; but I had scarce opened the book, when I saw a monk enter my room, who accosted me with a great deal of civility, congratulating me very cordially upon my recovery.
This was no other than the reverend father Pancracio, one of my mother's spiritual directors; one I say, because she had as many as there were convents in Lisbon; but this gentleman was her principal favourite, one whom she never saw, but to confess some darling sin, or on matters of the greatest importance. He must certainly then be a man of great abilities you will say. On the contrary, I do not think there ever was a grosser or more material understanding than his: but, in amends for all this, he was as handsome a man, as you shall see on a summer's day; and every one knows that is a qualification in a monk more than sufficient to make all the women run after him: accordingly the reverend Adonis in question was the factotum of all the ladies in Lisbon.
When I first saw him enter the room, I imagined he had some business with my mothers, and, after desiring him to sit down, told him I would go and acquaint her of his being there. "There is no occasion for your giving yourself that trouble, Signior Ranucio, said he, I am just come from her, and my business at present is with you. Your good lady mother, continued he, has acquainted me with what passed during your illness, and the miraculous manner in which our holy patriarch wrought your recovery. I expected as much indeed from his powerful intercession, and the great trust your mother and yourself have always put in him. Permit me, however, young gentleman, to chide you a little in the saint's name, for your ingratitude to him. You must be sensible on what conditions you received your cure; and yet, to my great surprise, I hear that you refuse to ratify them. Do you not
know, that the Melius est non vevere quam	et reliqua; it is better not to make a vow at
all, than to	and so on. You now belong to God and our holy order, in virtue of that
which you made during your sickness. You are, as it were, mortgaged to us, and have no means left of evading your contract, without falling into apostacy; a crime accounted and declared most enormous and deadly by all the inquisitions throughout the world."
"I am perfectly sensible, father, said I, that God is not to be mocked, and that we are bound to perform whatever we promise to him. But, is it to divert yourself with the ignorance of us people of the world, that you pretend to make me believe that I am answerable for a vow in which I had no sort of concern? Is it likely that I should ever make a vow to enter into your order, when I cannot see a monk go by me but I am touch'd with the
deepest compassion and	." "It is very certain, said father Pancracio, interrupting me,
that our exterior is not the most tempting for young people, like you, in the bloom of youth, and at an age for pleasures. Our solemn air, the strict rules of our order, and the coarseness of our habit, are all things that make against us in the opinion of a young man who finds in the commerce of the world all the pleasures and conveniences of life: but let me tell you, son, things are not always to be taken by their looks. The world, with all its smiles and attractions, has also its thorns. Our life, on the contrary, all rigid and austere as it seems, has its pleasures and comforts. It is hard in appearance to quit one's family and possessions, to embrace the life of a mendicant: but you do not know, perhaps, that these mendicants are only so in name, and that they are possessed of more wealth, than the richest noblemen in the kingdom. These have only some few houses, or at most a little village or two belonging to them; whereas we have numbers in every province throughout Europe, nay almost in every city, even as far distant as the new world itself. It is true, that at our admission into the order, we renounce all property; but, under this specious veil of religious poverty, we riot on the
plenty of the land. That world, which we have bid adieu to, loads us with its favors, as if willing to shew how it is concerned for our having left it, and how desirous it is of alluring us back again at any price whatever. Pleasures, honours, riches, fortune, all smile upon us. Wherever we make our appearance, it seems as if our holy habit banished every thing likely to be the least disagreeable to us. The husband, fearful of offending us by an appearance of jealously, retires, and leaves us alone with his wife ; the young lover gives way, and quits his fair mistress to us ; and parents especially hold us in the highest degree of veneration, think us all saints, and put their blooming daughters under our direction, placing more confidence in the habit we wear, than in the honor and integrity of the most virtuous man upon earth."----
	So much for cities and towns.
The country affords us a new scene of delights: we are sure of being well received wherever we go; we have the uppermost seats at table, our plates are heaped with the choicest morsels, and our palates regaled with the richest wines. We have also the best rooms, the finest linen, the softest beds, and in a word every thing that luxury or affluence can furnish, to indemnify us for the supposed austerity and mortification of our lives, which we however wisely confine to the habit alone."
I listened attentively to Pancracio all the time he was speaking, who thought that what he had said would inspire me with a great taste for his way of life ; not perceiving that it had quite the contrary effect, and was rather calculated to give me the highest dislike to it ; he was going to proceed, when he was interrupted by my father's suddenly entering the room, who doubtless had not perceived the monk's sandals which he had left without side the door, and which with us are considered as two sacred barriers, which no mortal living dare infringe. The reverend father no sooner saw him enter, than he rose up and took his leave of me; but not till he had earnestly recommended to me to keep our conversation an inviolable secret from every one. Don Pedro, who had not forgot the dispute he had had with my mother in relation to my pretended vow, presently suspected that the monk's visit to me was not without some design. Accordingly he questioned me on what had passed between us. I made no hesitation to obey him, and related the whole of our conversation to him from first to last; with which the old gentleman was not a little delighted.
 V.
Ranucio goes to his uncle's. A picture of the licenciate-conferences at his house.
The manner of holding them in Portugal.
MY late interview with Pancracio had given my father some uneasiness, lest those reverend dragoons, by returning to the charge, might at length overcome my vigorous opposition and remain masters of the field. In order, therefore, to secure me from any further attacks from that quarter, he made me a second proposal of going to pass some time at his brother's, my uncle Don Antonio. I accepted the proposal with joy, as the surest means of freeing me from my mother's importunities, who was continually teasing me with vows and convents from morning to night. Accordingly I lost no time in setting out; and, after a journey of two days, I got to the licenciate's, who received me with all possible demonstrations of love and kindness.
He was a man about five feet high, by four in circumference, with a face irradiated, and set off by an infinite number of rubies of the true bacchanalian cast. His eyes were encircled with a border of the most lively carnation; his cheeks much resembled those usually given to Boreas, with a chin that fell down in triple folds on his broad breast. This is a pretty exact picture of my uncle's physiognomy. The rest of his person had nothing particular in it,
if we except a pair of legs of an enormous size, yet not disproportioned to the bulk of the body they were to support.
At my arrival I found him at table tęte ŕ tęte with a very pretty girl, his house-keeper, whom he told me was the daughter of an old maid-servant that lived with him. I paid a most religious belief to his assertion, tho? I could not help observing something in the girl's features that seemed to me more than sufficient to justify the care and tenderness which the good licenciate seemed to express towards her.
As soon as he saw me enter the room, he raised himself from his seat not without some difficulty, and embraced me very heartily; then, after making me sit down by him, he ordered them to bring in the dishes that had been just carried from the table, supper being almost over. We had some excellent church wine, which we poured forth in large libations: I say we; for tho? my uncle had almost supped when I came in, yet, out of complaisance to me, he began to eat again like a man that had fasted the whole day. This amusement carried us deep into the night, the hearty licenciate never balking his glass, tho? he was to celebrate mass early the next morning; I imagine that the great desire he had to hear news about his family, had made him forget that little circumstance. I, on my part, satisfied him in all his questions, and at last we retired to rest in a pretty tolerable condition. I hastened to bed, where I lay and indulged myself till I was called up to mass, which my good uncle performed without the least scruple from his over-night's affair.
When we returned home, we found the house pretty full of company. There were two ladies from Evora, one of whom was an acquaintance of my uncle's; they had been drawn into the country by the fine weather, and had brought with them a Spanish gentleman, with a design to surprise my uncle, and make him give them a dinner. He received them with all imaginable politeness, and an assurance that they could not have done him a more sensible pleasure. While he was employed in giving orders to his house-keeper, we saw coming in, one after another, six curates of neighbouring parishes : they were come it seems to assist at a conference which was to be held that day at Don Antonio's, who was their dean. As I had never heard mention of these sort of ceremonies, I enquired what they might be; and was told, that they were meetings appointed by the bishops to be held in every deanry, (at which the curates were all obliged to appear) where some points in divinity, morality, or case of conscience were to be discussed, when each person was to give his opinion and solution. A copy of these were sent to the bishop, who caused them to be examined and registered by the faculty of divines, and then made public.
This then was the business that brought these gentlemen to my uncle's. They were all superbly mounted, and in nowise seemed to be affected with the severity of the times. As soon as they alighted, they saluted their reverend dean, who returned their compliments by setting before them an excellent ham, to keep them employed till dinner-time: they were not wanting to pay all due honours to this mark of their host's hospitality. The ladies, who did not expect to have met with so much company, were for taking their leaves, after having refreshed themselves: but these worthy gentlemen, backed by my uncle Don Antonio, pressed them to stay, in such a manner, that they could not well refuse: in short, they consented, and cards being called for, every one sat down, to pass the time away till dinner.
While they were thus devoutly occupied, a country fellow, whose wife lay at the point of death, came to desire the sacrament to be brought to her. Don Antonio, who had his hands full with giving orders in the kitchen, desired one of his reverend guests to leave off play for a moment, and officiate in his room. They all offered their services; but not one of them would stir, till the game was out; so that the poor woman had all imaginable leisure to die at her ease, which she accordingly did a few minutes before they got to the house. Our jovial curates, however, were not disconcerted by this trifling accident, but continued to play on, till word was brought that dinner was upon table.
No sooner was the summons given, than they all rose up with one accord, and quitting the field of gaming, repaired to that of mirth and festivity, which was held in a large and commodious dining-room set apart for these pious and truly worthy purposes. The height of profusion reigned in every article. The most delicate wines were served in large pitchers. Of these were six that for their size might have contained enough to have purified a whole synagogue. The table, which was covered with the most exquisite dishes, might dispute voluptuousness with those of our most sensual prelates. I could plainly perceive an air of serenity and delight diffused over the faces of our reverend guests, not inferior to that of a young court chaplain when he has just been presented to a fat benefice. After a very concise grace, they began the attack on the dishes. Never till that time had I known what eating was. The morsels followed each other in such quick succession, as left no room for the utterance of a single word; accordingly, during the first course, there was not four words spoken, except to call for drink.
Room being now made for the second course, the ladies, with whom these indigested meals do not so well agree, were the first to set a conversation on foot: it was a little serious at the beginning; but the floods of wine that passed round the table soon gave it a more lively turn. Those curates of the neighbourhood, who had had any affairs upon their hands, were now called over in review. "Poor Monte Horuevo, says one of the company, is devilish unlucky to have fallen into the hands of such a bishop as he has to deal with ; he is for ever persecuting the poor man, and all forsooth because he happened to break in a little upon the degrees of consanguinity in his correspondence with a female relation that lived in the house with him ; as if, in our little country towns, we were obliged to be as good casuists, as those gentlemen who are always in the midst of universities and colleges."
"If he has been ill-treated, replied another, he may thank himself for it. Why did he not act as I did by our patriarch? The value of two reals would have done the business. My good man, to be sure, took it in his head to read me a lecture about a pretty niece that I have, what did I? I knew that he was violently enraptured with a new catechism which he had lately published, and which had been controverted almost in every point. Upon this I immediately bought it, and gave him my promise to make use of it in my parish. This did the job; and we are now the best friends in the world. As for his catechism, you know it is not worth a doit, though, poor foul, he has expended all the little wit he had upon it. But, what is that to me? the poor man is mad enough to want to pass for an author; I make my own use of his folly, and laugh in my sleeve at him in the mean time."
"Ay, now this is acting like a man of spirit, says a third. It is only fools that don't know how to make an advantage of the folly and blunders of their superiors. Answer a fool according to his folly, says Solomon, and very justly too; for, in my opinion, he must be the prince of fools who would bring an old house upon his head for want of agreeing to any thing required by his bishop. But there is no persuading your wise gentry to this; and that has just been the ruin of Porto Rejo and his pupils, whose only crime was that of having more learning than those who condemned them for their ignorance."
"To be sure, answered one of the youngest of the curates, it is the only way of acting. What the devil is their business to be eternally studying and writing? Why cannot they do as we do? Burn all books and book-worms too, say I. Give me that excellent sentence of the wise man, Vinum et mulieres non faciunt bćreses: In women and wine there is no heresy. Here friends, said he, striking his glass against his next neighbour's, Date nobis de olio vestro et vinnum bonum qui lćtificat juventutem meam."
The whole reverend band joined in commendation of this fine fally, and the toast went round. The conversation fell upon the intrigues and gallantries of some of the ladies of the best fashion in the neighbourhood; in the relation of which, these worthy gentlemen did not
much consider the modesty of those present: for, as they themselves were accustomed to have their ears continually filled with such idle stuff, they naturally supposed ours to be the same.
 VI.
Arrival of Don Rodriguez d'Alcugna.
A picture of that gentleman. The manner in which he treats the licenciates.
WE were all in high spirits, and it might be truly said, that mirth and joy had taken possession of every breast, when a servant came and acquainted Don Antonio that there was a man without, who desired to speak with him. My uncle immediately enquired what sort of a man he was, and how he was dressed? "Shabby enough, Sir, said the servant; he says his name is Don Ferdinand Rodriguez d'alcugna." "Ho, ho! said one of the licenciates, I guess what his business is now; here, give him these two reals *, and God and St. James be his guides." We all thought him gone about his business, when, to our great surprise, we saw a person enter the room, who was an absolute stranger to all the company. The man was indeed meanly dressed, but had the most commanding and martial air with him that I had ever seen. He carried the certificate of his services about him in a wooden leg, which supplied the place of one he had lost in the wars. He began by paying his respects in a very polite manner to all the licenciates, who scarce deigned him so much as a nod of the head in return, which he took notice of, and taking a plate from the side-board, sat himself down at the table with as much ease and unconcern, as if he had been one of the family. All the company, and my uncle himself, astonished at the oddity of his behaviour, had their eyes fixed on him, not knowing at first what to think. "I see, gentlemen, said he, drawing his chair close to the table, that you are as much surprised at my behaviour, as I was just now at yours. I must own it is pretty extraordinary on both sides; but mine may at least serve to shew you that I am above the affronts of people to whom I am certain my company does honour. You would have spared them too, had you known how to distinguish you men; and therefore I think it proper to learn you so to do, that you may not fall into the like mistake another time. Know then, gentlemen, that such as you now see me, it is not long since I filled of the most considerable places at court. My attachment to my prince made me quit it, to go and serve in the army, and I distinguished myself by my services. But the mischances of war, and an unforeseen reverse of fortune, soon reduced me to the condition in which you at present behold me. All this I could have borne with tolerable patience; but for the death of ten of my sons, whom I had sent into the service, and who were all unfortunately killed at the battle of Estremes, lately gained by our troops. As they were all my comfort, and that I hoped to see them one day become the support of my old age, having now lost them, I am returning to court, where I flatter myself I shall obtain from my royal master a reward for my own service, and those of ten boys. Having heard in my way that you gentlemen were the distributers of the charitable donations for the use of the poor, to a share in which my present condition gives me an undoubted right, I was very desirous to be an eye-witness of the manner in which you acquit yourselves of that pious office: and if I may judge by what I have seen, it must be allowed that you do it to a miracle; and that if every one, who stands in need of your assistance, meets with the same success that I have done this day, it would certainly be a great happiness to be in the list of your pensioners."
* A real is a Spanish silver coin, in value about 5 1/4 d. of our money.
As biting as this speech was, the honest licenciates seemed to give little attention to it: on the contrary, finding that their new guest was disposed to treat them thus cavalierly, they thought they had no reason to confine themselves in the least on his account, and accordingly resumed their conversation, which began to grow more spirited as the bottle went brisker round, till at length they came to double entendres, which they carried to such a length that they found it necessary to explain themselves in Latin, for fear of driving the ladies entirely out of the room. This noble topic brought them insensibly upon that of marriage, in which state they shewed themselves no small adepts. I have learnt since that is the favourite theme of our priests and monks, who acquire a much greater degree of knowledge therein, than either in divinity or morality.
Having now exhausted their subject and their liquor, they desired the strange gentleman to give them some little story in his turn. "Come, Signor d'alcugna, said one of the licenciates to him in a tone of raillery, you must pay your scot; it shall never be said that we have given you your dinner gratis; a man, who like you was so long conversant in a court, cannot but have learnt some very entertaining intrigues and droll amours to divert us with." "I should be furnished with many more, replied Don Rodriguez very gravely, had I ever read over some of your famous casuists: but I thank heaven, I have rather more modesty than to defile my mouth, or the ears of the company, with such impurity. A man who knows the world, and has the least good breeding, scorns to use such discourses, especially in the hearing of a sex that commands our respect and deference as much as it does our love and admiration: you will therefore excuse me, gentlemen, if I do not begin to do a thing which I never have done as yet. There is a variety of amusing subjects to enliven conversation, without running into absurdities or indecency. But if I must absolutely pay my scot, I will tell you a better story, which I heard one day at his majesty's levée, when I had the honor of attending at court. And tho? tales of this kind have their existence only in the imagination of him who invents them, yet they are not altogether without their use; as I shall leave you to judge from that with which I am about to entertain you: the king declared himself greatly pleased with it, and I doubt not but you will find it both instructive and amusing.
The D E V I L Sick:
A T A L E.
O
NCE on a time Lucifier fell ill; the alarm was presently spread through all hell ; and physicians, of which there is no want in that place, were sent for in abundance : but, as their skill is no greater in the lower world than in this, they fell short in their endeavours to cure his infernal majesty. Donna Proserpina his consort, who led but an indifferent kind of a life with him, was not very sorry at first for her husband's illness. The generality of women are pleased with mischief: however, when she saw him given over by the physicians, she began to feel her tenderness awakened, and never were seen stronger marks of conjugal grief than those which she exhibited on this occasion. Lord Lucifer, to his no small surprise and satisfaction, saw himself loaded with more caresses and expressions of kindness than he had received from her for upwards of five thousand six hundred and seventy-fours years that they had lived together: in short, finding all the art and efforts of the physical tribe at a stand, she was resolved to try her own little skill towards the recovery of her grim paramour. But in the first place she asked him whether he was willing to submit to her prescriptions, and take such remedies as she should administer to him with her own hands?
Lucifer answered, that he was very willing to take whatever she should give him, provided she would only tell him what it was. "Well, says she, if that is the case, presenting in the instant a phial which she held in her hand to him, take this, my dear; it is the soul of a
lawyer; there is not a more excellent purgative;"	"no, nor any thing so indigestible,
said the devil, interrupting her in a pet. Have you forgot how I had like to have burst about six months ago, only by having just felt one, notwithstanding you had the precaution to dress it in the nicest manner?"
"Odso! I did not recollect that, replied Proserpine; but here is something more balsamic and easy of digestion; it is the soul of an exciseman; that, surely, will sit light upon your stomach." "The soul of an exciseman! Cried Lucifer, ah! Away with it, away with it; don't you know that the souls of those gentry are used to fatten on the substance and marrow of the people; by my fork, if I was to swallow it, it would suck the very marrow out of my bones.
Well then, continued Proserpine, you surely will not refuse this; here is the soul of an overgrown monk, who never lived upon any thing but partridges and white bread, Ah! For shame, replied his diabolical majesty, are you making game of me? Am I in a fit condition to digest such kind of food? His grease would rise so upon my stomach that I should vomit my heart out; ah! I am ready to bring it up already at the bare mention of such a mess.
Alack-a-day, said she, I see plainly now, that your disorder has taken away your taste, for you was wont to feast upon them sometimes; but since nothing but dainties will go down with you, I think we must endeavour to get them for you. Let me see you swallow this soul of a young nun, who was never yet tempted by her director. And where the plague will you find that, replied Lucifer? You may as well look for a bishop that never sold a presentation, or a divine that practices what he preaches. Believe me, my ear half, it will be labour lost to look for any thing of that kind; so you may e'en spare yourself the pains: I have traversed the world more than ever you did, and I am sure I could never meet with either the one or the other of them in all my flights.
Well, but one may at least get you the soul of a confessor to a young prince, that is tit-bit in great esteem in the upper world, and may possibly do you service. Had that been the case, said Satan, I should never have been ill; for I breakfast upon them every morning. No, no; nothing of that kind will do my business. There is but one thing I have any extraordinary desire to. I have heard that nature frequently finds a cure to the disorder in the particular appetite or desire of the patients. Now I have a strong pre-sentiment that what I so much long for will perfectly recover me; but the difficulty is where to find it.
Oh my dear sweet devil of an husband, cry'd Proserpine, throwing her arms round his neck, is there any thing too difficult, when it concerns the life and health of those we love? Only speak, and rest assured that I will leave nothing undone to deliver you from this deplorable situation. Must heaven and earth be overturned, the elements confounded, and all things reduced to their primitive chaos? I will let loose all the powers of hell, and put them into action, but what you desire shall be found and got for you. Softly, good wife, replied the infernal monarch, there is no occasion for all this bustle; besides, if you was to set all the devils in my kingdom upon the hunt, I question much whether they would be able to find the thing in question so soon as you imagine, and yet it is not absolutely impossible to be found; but it is so very scarce, that one may as good as say it is impossible: and pray, what may this same scarce commodity be, said Proserpine? For pity's sake, my jewel, suffer me not to languish thus in uncertainty. Why then, if you must have it, said Lucifer, I long for the souls of six country curates, all chaste, sober, and charitable, boil'd down to a strong jelly; and I am certain that this, and this alone, would restore me to life and health."
When Don Rodriguez came to this part of his story, he did not stay to finish the rest, but rising from table, he took his hat, and making a very low bow to the company, he
withdrew, leaving our guests, confounded and speechless. I could not forbear admiring the ingenuous method he had taken of telling them their own: ay, said I to myself, this is paying his scot with a vengeance.
The soup, with which Don Rodriguez had just regaled the, sat so heavy on their stomachs, that I verily believe it would have suffocated them, had they not taken the precaution to dilute it with frequent bumpers: but, nevertheless, it was continually rising uppermost. A pretty fellow this with his sick devil, said one of the curates; what? He wants a curate or two like us to cure him with a pox to him! By St. Jago, said another, if her devilship of a wife of his was in such a hurry to have him cured, she should have given him a few drops of the wonderful elixir lately sent us from Papimania, the virtues of which are so great, that I have seen several persons, after taking a dose or two, swallow the largest fine-cures, without ever finding their stomachs the least hurt by them.
This speech set the whole room in a loud laugh; I presently imagined that there must be some mystery in the last words, and turning to one of the licentiates who sat next to me, I begged him to explain the meaning of them, which he did in the manner as will be seen in the following chapter.
 VII.
Which is as curious, and interesting, as any in this book.
YOU must know, Seignor Ranucio, said the licentiate to me, that it is now between eighteen and twenty years since the prince Albanius had a son by Donna Inés Loyolina, to whom he had been privately married before he ascended the throne of Papimania. The prince would never have been drawn into this alliance, but through the persuasions of those who were continually extolling the immense riches and credit of this lady: and in fact, he no sooner beheld the unhappy fruit of his clandestine marriage, than he resolved to have it dissolved before the grandees of his kingdom or his subjects should come to know it.
This step, how violent soever in appearance, was yet absolutely necessary. It will be sufficient to his justification, that we give a picture of the son he had by this ambitious princess: It was a monster, who, with a most hideous head, had fifty arms, and as many legs, all of different lengths. This monstrous assemblage of parts terminated in a long tail full of the most subtle poison; and, what rendered it still more hideous and dreadful, was that this tail cast forth thunders and lightening against every one who had not the complaisance to think it very beautiful and fine.
So hideous a monster ought certainly to have been stifled as soon as born, and doubtless this is what prince Albanius would have had done, could he have torn it from the arms of its mother. But, from the instant of its birth, Inés made it the object of all her tenderness and delight. She even carried her blind love for it so far, as to endeavour, notwithstanding its being such a monster, to get it declared legitimate, and place it on the throne of its father. Such were her views, when she was informed that the prince her husband was, as I have already told you, about to rid himself of mother and child together. You will easily conceive what must have been her surprise, or rather rage, at this dreadful news. She swore, she threatened, she raged, and, in order to intimidate her husband, she brought all her friends and relations upon his back,which were in great numbers, and very powerful. They had the insolence to threaten to expel him from the throne, and would most certainly have been as good as their words, had not the prince, to make the best of this ticklish situation, had
recourse to a little policy, and promised to do just as they would have him: in consequence of this, he convoked an assembly of all the principal men of his kingdom.
Tho? his pride was hurt by this concession, yet he comforted himself with the hopes that his nobles would favour his views, and enable him to dissolve his marriage. His hopes were not without foundation; but the princess, who was strictly upon her guard, had the precaution to gain over his chancellor Molinés, who put a stop to the design. This artful minister made a speech to the nobles, assembled to the number of seventy-two, in which he set before them the many advantages and vast possessions that would accrue to the state by passing this act of ligitimation, which he said would at once put an end to all feuds and animosities, and firmly secure the public tranquillity. He then expatiated courtier-like on the virtues of both father and son, and from then launched out in praise of those who were their counsellors and assistants in the arduous task of governing. In a word, he knew so well how to work upon their dispositions, that nothing remained but for the young price to appear and receive the suffrages of the whole assembly in his favour.
Inés, who was delighted to a degree of transport with this favourable beginning,
ruined all again by her precipitation. The instant she received the news of the favourable disposition of the states, she hastened to conduct her son to the great hall appointed for his coronation. But, what was her grief and disappointment, when, instead of the general homage, which she expected to see paid him, she heard herself loaded with a thousand curses. The nobles, terrified at his horrid figure, not only were unable to bear the sight of him, but to a man fled out of the palace, deaf to all the remonstrances and fine promises of the chancellor Molinés, and ran to hide themselves, every one in his vineyard.
This accident, which the princess might easily have foreseen, had she not been wholly
blinded by partiality, did not however make her abandon her project. She resolved to make a second attempt as soon as the nobles might be supposed to have recovered a little from their fright: but the apprehension of meeting with another rebuff of the same kind with the former, made her a little more wary in her proceedings: she consulted her relations what steps would be most proper for her to take in order to succeed. They were unanimous in advising her to address herself to one Tellerio, who was I may say the factotum of the whole family. He was an old Gaul deeply versed in magic and necromancy; his abilities had been experienced by almost every one present on some occasion or another: in fact, he was a person of great skill in his profession. To give you some slight idea of his capacity, I shall content myself with saying, that this old druid had some time before bewitched one of the greatest empires in the world in such a manner, as to make them adore pictures and puppets in the room of the true God: and, what is still more astonishing, he had even found the secret to fascinate the eyes of prince Albanius himself so as to make him believe that this impious and ridiculous worship had nothing in it but what was consonant and agreeable to true religion.
Such was the worthy personage to whom Inés addressed herself for assistance. As the installation of her only son was a project in which the glory and reputation of her whole family were concerned, the old druid, who had the honor of being related to them, resolved to use his utmost efforts to insure its success.
In this view he invoked all the powers of earth and hell to his assistance, and with their help composed a diabolical elixir, which he sent to the princess by one of his servants. Inés received it with all imaginable joy; and, to reward the services of the master in the person of the servant, she made him a rich present; (a happy presage of what she was one day to do for those who entered heartily and zealously into her interest.
And now, the better to conceal her design, she, with the advice of Tellerio, prepared a magnificent entertainment; to which she invited, in the prince her husband's name, all the nobles of the court. The reason of this high mark of the royal favour was industriously concealed from them; however, the major part guess'd at the real cause: accordingly, out of
seventy-two, who were the first time at the palace, there were not passing four or five that now made their appearance: these were some time before they were introduced to the prince, as the rest were every moment expected: but they not coming, the few who attended were ushered into the great hall prepared for the feast, where they were received with abundance of caresses by Inés and the prince.
Nothing was talked of but mirth and jollity, and not a word transpired of the real motive of their invitation, till the princess perceived the elixir, which she had mixed with their wine, had begun to operate; and, indeed, never did charm produce so sudden and so extraordinary an effect: for, besides depriving them of all knowledge and reason, it utterly fascinated their sight, and made them behold the most admirable and surprising things.
What struck them the most, was the wonderful metamorphosis they beheld in the person of prince Albanius himself, who now appeared quite altered to their eyes. A god-like and majestic air had taken possession of his former bald and wrinkled front: he seemed to them now a less mortal, than some god ready to deliver his oracles, which they only waited to hear, to receive them with the most profound respect. On each side of him they beheld two tables, on which were spread the rewards and punishments that awaited them, according to the party they embraced. One was covered with commissions and patents for honors, dignities, and places of the highest trust and profit: in a word, with every thing capable of flattering the vanity and ambition of man. Round this table was the following Latin inscription, engraven in letters of gold, Hćc omnia tibi dabo, si cadens adoraveris me *. The other was spread with orders for banishment, and commitments to the galleys, jails, and whipping-posts, with this legend, Hćc vos pćna manet +. As much as these objects struck them with dread and terror, so much did the sight of the others allure their attention and flatter their desire of gain. Inés soon perceived the effects produced in their minds, from whence she formed a favourable presage of her scheme, and immediately sent for her son.
The guests were still wrapp'd up in ecstasy, when the young prince entered the hall, accompanied by a dozen of his relations on the mother's side: and now the charm began to work its principal effect. This monster, at whose sight they had so lately fled with the utmost trepidation, no longer appeared so hideous and frightful, no longer inspired them with dread and horror: on the contrary, they embraced his knees, offered him a thousand caresses, and humbly entreated him to forgive the injury they had done him, in not paying him at first those honors which were his due, and declared themselves ready to make him reparation, not only by instantly acknowledging him as sole heir to the crown, but by falling down and worshipping him, if he thought proper to desire it. Inés thanked them for their generosity; and, to give them a present mark of her gratitude and acknowledgment, she made the prince her husband confer a principality on each of them, with an assurance of its being only an earnest of future favors which should be heap'd on them in proportion to their zeal and attachment to her son.
They now proceeded to the legitimation of this monstrous offspring, which, after a short preamble, passed by the unanimous votes of all present. He was then lead to the throne, which he mounted, and the ceremony concluded with prayers for the father and mother, and the worthy offspring of such an illustrious pair.
And now the news of this installation soon spread abroad. The four lords, who had tasted so large of the prince's bounty, were the first to publish it with the most lavish encomiums on the great perfections of his son, whom they extolled as the most amiable and accomplished young prince that ever graced a royal union; he was a master-piece of nature, a gift from heaven: nay, they carried their abominable flattery so far, as to stile him THE ONLY SON OF A GOD, whom it was in the highest degree impious not to adore.
* All this will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. + This is the punishment prepared for you.
The rest of the nobles who had formed a very different idea of him at the first sight, laughed at their brethren for fools and madmen, and indeed not without some shew of reason:
but when they came to reflect that prince Albanius, who had always shewn himself a person of sense and discernment, would not certainly have bestowed these governments and principalities upon them, which were some of the strongest holds in his kingdom, had he perceived any thing like madness or folly in them: they suspended farther judgment for a while, determined to convince themselves by a second visit, if all the wonders told them of the young prince had any foundation in truth.
To say the truth, they were not so much incited to take this step thro? curiosity, as
from a jealous apprehension of seeing their colleagues become more powerful then themselves. In short, a desire of having an equal share of honors and preferments was indeed the true and only motive that drew them once more to the royal palace. Inés, who made no doubt that the fame of her liberality would at length bring them to her lure, determined at first to refuse them admittance: but her relations and counsellors having represented to her that she was still in need of the voices of these nobles, she made use of her customary policy, and gave them if possible a kinder reception than she had to the others. Scarce had they tasted the inchanted cup, and received one a principality, another a government, and others a good warm pension, than they saw with quite different eyes, and ratified all that had been done by their colleagues.
Had Inés known how to govern her ambition, she would have been satisfied with
these suffrages; but she was resolved to have those of the magistrates and the people likewise. With this design she drew a promise from the nobles, that they would assist her with all their credit and authority in this great affair: this they bound themselves to by an oath. And still the better to insure success, she caused her famous magician to make a prodigious quantity of the elixir, of which she gave numberless parcels to her relations and the chosen messengers of her will, who, like so many mount-banks, went up and down distributing them thro? all the towns and cities in the kingdom of Papimania.
Had she even stopt there, she might probably have succeeded: but her excessive
fondness for her son, proved the ruin of them both. As self-love always make us see beauties in our own offspring, let them be never so deformed; the infatuated princess thought nothing worthy to be set in competition with her brat, whom she doated on to the most extravagant degree. She took it in her head then, agreeable to the weakness common to most mothers, that every one must necessarily look upon her child with the same eyes as she herself did: and, in this fond persuasion, she caused a number of pictures of him to be drawn, which she sent into all the provinces of the kingdom.
No sooner were the copies of this monstrous original (which however they had most
strangely flattered) made public, than it caused a general insurrection throughout the kingdom. The relations and friends of Inés, who had undertaken to get him acknowledged as heir to the crown, in vain endeavoured to palliate the horror and deformity of his figure; it was time and labor lost. The elixir, on which they so much depended, had lost the greatest part of its virtue by way, and was no longer of any service to them: as little availed the blue hats, green scarfs, and red band-strings, with all the rest of the knicknackery which Inés had procured for them of her husband prince Albanius. The people who are unacquainted with ambition, were not to be imposed upon by all this tinsel; and all that the agents of Inés could do, was to bring over some few of the inferior magistrates, who suffered themselves to be caught with a rattle: but they soon were the dupes of their own folly; for the violent proceedings of Loyolina and her relations had now stirred the nation to such a pitch, that they threw off all restraint, and of their own authority disannulled all that had been done in favour of the monstrous prince, whose person they seized, and sent him in chains to the general assembly of the nation, to do with him as should seem good in their eyes.
 VIII.
A battle between the licentiates, occasioned by the foregoing story.
The adventures of a marriage-feast.
DUring this relation, which I listened to with the greatest pleasure, I observed that it had a very different effect on one of the company, named Castilmoro, a licentiate, who addressing himself to my historian, master Curate, said he as soon as he had finished, methinks you give your tongue strange liberties; it is plain that the wine has made you forget the respect you owe to the character of prince Albanius. I am very sensible, replied my licentiate, that his character of prince demands respect at my hands; but you know very well that the kingdom of Papimania is not hereditary; therefore no one is obliged to extend the respect and homage all owe the prince, to his children, especially when not acknowledged as such by the great assembly of the nation, and that they are such monsters as him we have been mentioning. God preserve me! cried Castilmoro, just beside himself with rage, can any one, without the most horrid impiety, speak in this manner of the most lovely and accomplished of all princes! Of a prince, who, next to God and his blessed mother, merits
all our adoration! A prince worthy to have altars raised	In China perhaps, said the
other, interrupting him with a sneer, where he would serve excellently well to add one to the number of their pagods, for one would swear he had been formed exactly upon their model.
The repartee pleas'd the rest of the company as much as it did me: nevertheless I could observe that some of our guests were a little scandalized at the freedom of it, which made me conclude that they were divided in their opinions about this son of Albanius. I was more fully convinced of this when I saw the whole company, which before had been as one person, divide themselves into two different parties, and begin to dispute with great vehemence.
As the wine had put their spirits into a ferment, the dispute could not fail of growing warm. They began by arguments, from thence proceeded to abuse, and finally to blows. The table, with all its apparatus, were the first things that presented themselves as arms to the combatants; but, when every thing of this kind was destroyed and broken, they fell to fisty-cuffs, collaring, buffeting, and overturning one another with such fury, that I expected every moment to see some of them knock'd on the head.
I hardly knew whether to laugh or cry at such a tragic-comical spectacle. Is it possible, said I to myself, that churchmen should be fools enough to cut one another's throats about such extravagancies? Where is their understanding? Where their charity and brotherly love? The ladies had taken flight at the beginning of the onset; so that I was left alone with the Spanish gentleman, who suffered not the least discomposure of muscles from this farce, nor departed from his natural gravity and phlegmatic deportment.
Don Antonio, my uncle, who had very wisely taken care to place himself out of reach of the blows that were so liberally dealt about, kept crying out to us to part them, and put an end to the disturbance: but we were not quite such fools to undertake any thing of the kind, but left them at full liberty to deal with each other as they thought proper. They were still hard at it, and there seemed little probability of the fray being soon ended, when on a sudden we heard the sound of musical instruments playing a very brisk symphony. I immediately left the room, shutting the door after me, and went to see to whom we were indebted for this serenade. It was the young lord of the manor, who was conducting home, with musick and great rejoicing, a couple whom Don Antonio had married the day before: and, as he was prevented by his company coming in from being present at the marriage-feast, which was held at the manor-house, the 'squire, and the whole wedding-band had come to give him part of the entertainment. I conducted them all into the great hall, and began dancing with them
myself, to give our champions time to put themselves a little to rights after their combat. However, I need not have been so very sollicitous about them; for no sooner did they hear the sound of the music, than the dćmon of madness, which had taken possession of them, quitted them; and, separating of their own accord, they got each upon his horse, and, after thanking my uncle for his kind reception, made the best of their way homewards.
Thus finished the conference at which these gentlemen had been called to assist. As I doubt much whether it may find a place among those which our patriarch is shortly going to make public, I was willing to give it one in these memoirs, that he may one day or another be informed of it.
And now the ladies, who had been scared by the noise and thunder of the war, returned and joined us; they danced with the gentlemen in their turns, till the evening which now came on apace, gave them a hint that it was time to retire.
The whole company were in like manner preparing to leave us, when an accident happened that detained them for some time longer; and which, for its singularity, deserves a place in these memoirs.
The reader will remember, that, among the guests that came to our house in the morning, I mentioned a Spanish gentleman, that accompanied two ladies, one of whom was not only very handsome, but of a most engaging sweetness of carriage. This gentleman seeing the company about to retire, proposed to close the ball himself. I had remarked, that, while the rest were dancing, he every now and then cast his eyes on the bride, and fetched a deep sigh, while the tears stole down his cheeks: such a behaviour in an assembly, where every thing breathed mirth and jollity, appeared to me very extraordinary, and I could not help thinking that something more than common must pass within him to occasion this. The sequel will shew I was not mistaken.
He had offered, as I said before, to close the ball, and gave his hand to the bride, who danced with him. As the company had just been taking a little refreshment, she had not time to put on her gloves, but danced that once without them. This was not observed at first by the gentleman, whose eyes and attention were otherwise employed. But when she came to give him her hand towards the end of the dance, he was suddenly struck with the lustre of a large diamond which she wore on her finger. He very politely begged her to favour him with a nearer sight of it, which she as genteelly complied with. But what was his surprise, when he saw his own name and his wife's on it in a cipher! "Madam, said he, looking earnestly at her, will it not be a piece of presumption in me to ask you of whom you had this ring? I think to
have seen it in other hands 	Ah! What do I behold! You seem troubled! Is it
possible, Madam, that you should be acquainted with my lovely Sophia? This ring she once received from my hands, as a pledge of my faith and constancy; it is still dear to me, tho? above six years are past since death tore the beauteous owner from my arms."
The lady, overwhelm'd with surprise and trouble, made no answer to these words, but by a flood of tears, which greatly astonished the whole company. "Good God! Madam, cry'd the gentleman eagerly, do you answer me only by your tears? Heavens! How they charm me! And yet, perhaps, they may too soon plunge me in the most cruel dilemma! No matter! nothing can be comparable to the joy of finding you again, after having shed so many tears for your supposed death: Yes, my dearest Sophia, in me you see your tender, your faithful Frontiera!"
At these words he embraced the lady in the tenderest manner, who immediately fainted away in his arms. The bridegroom surprised at what he saw, and stung with resentment at the liberty the gentleman had taken with his wife, flew to him with his sword in his hand, to punish him for his boldness, and would actually have run him thro?, had he not been withheld by the company, who insisted upon knowing the occasion of the quarrel. The
strange gentleman immediately satisfied their curiosity by relating his history, such as it is found in the following chapter.
 IX.
The involuntary Exchange.
DON Balthazar de Frontiera, my father, seeing himself encumbered with a great number of children, resolved that we should each of us embrace some sort of employ. He sent me to study fortification: after which I took up arms, as a profession the most suitable to my birth. I was only eighteen years of age when I entered into the service of the king of Spain; and the general peace which then reigned all over Europe, leaving me no room to expect advancement, I went to Portugal, in hopes of succeeding better there. It was there that I first saw and loved the adorable Sophia; but it cost me three years of continual assiduities, before I could compass the end of my wishes: at last our hands were joined; but the hour of our union might be said to be that of the division of our two countries. The Portugueze having thrown off the Spanish yoke, and put themselves under the dominion of the duke of Braganza, the flames of war were immediately lighted up between the two kingdoms. The engagements I had so newly entered into Portugal, did not however hinder me from remaining faithful to my prince, and I had an opportunity of distinguishing myself in several actions; the particulars of which, I shall not take up your time in relating: it is sufficient to inform you, that the king overpaid my services, by creating me brigadier of his forces, and knight of the order of St. James.
While my services were thus rewarded by the court of Madrid, the court of Lisbon was preparing for me, without knowing it, the most cruel revenge, John of Braganza having, notwithstanding all we could do, made himself master of Portugal, issued an edict, commanding all Spaniards to depart forthwith from his territories. The order was absolute: I therefore took shipping for Cadiz, where, as had been before agreed upon between us, my wife was to join me the following spring.
Nothing could be more agreeable than the first part of our navigation; but when we began to think of landing, having already descried the town, we were on a sudden overtaken by a furious tempest, which cast us on the coast of Africa, after making us experience all the horrors of the sea. A calm which succeeded this dreadful storm, somewhat reviv'd our drooping hearts. We set the sails again, and steer'd for the coast of Spain: but scarcely had we cleared the Barbary coast, when we found ourselves in the middle of two Moorish galliassies, one of which belonged to Tangier, the other to Sallé, who attacked us with great fury. Notwithstanding our inequality, we made the most vigorous resistance, and should in all probability have cleared ourselves of the enemy, had we not unfortunately fallen short of powder. In this condition we were obliged to strike; and the Barbarians, irritated by the resistance we had made, boarded us in shoals, with their sabres in their hands, and seemed determined to sacrifice us all to their vengeance, had not he, who was their commander, remonstrated to them, that such an action would infallibly ruin them with the king at their return: upon this they contented themselves with loading us with chains, and in that condition carried us into Sallé.
Muley Ismael, who was at time the reigning prince, had made a law, by which he appropriated all the Christian slaves that should fall into the hands of his subjects, to his own use, instead of being exposed in the public market-place to sale. In virtue of this order, we
were conducted to Mequinez, the usual residence of that prince, where we were put amongst his other slaves, to the number of 8 or 900, of all the different nations of Christendom.
When the overseer of the slaves came to take a review of us, and destine us to our several employments, he ask'd me, of which profession I was? I reply'd, I had been bred up to the use of arms, and knew nothing of any other employment." "So much the worse, said he sternly; it is a villainous science, and fit only such lazy wretches as yourself; but we shall soon teach you to work, I'll warrant you. Here, said he to one of his officers, take this gentleman away to the quarries, and see him employed there for the service of our puissant monarch: as for the rest of his fellow-prisoners, let them be sent to the lime-pits, we'll find work for them there."
This speech of the overseer's was like a thunderstroke to me: I flung mself at his feet, and, embracing his knees, conjured him, with a flood of tears, to take compassion on me, and change my punishment to any other. But I was soon forced to rise by a volley of blows, which I received with a bull's pizzle over my shoulders from one of our conductors.
The reason of this sharp treatment I afterwards found to be, that, with these barbarians, it is not permitted any one so much as to ask for a mitigation of his punishment, till he has undergone several years of the servitude to which he is condemn'd. I was therefore obliged to submit to my fate, and was sent to work in the stone-quarries.
It would be needless to acquaint you with the particulars of my sufferings during the space of six years that I continued in this miserable situation; they were such as you will easily figure to yourselves, from being shut up in subterraneous dungeons, where the cheering rays of the sun can never penetrate, and destin'd to the most painful and laborious employs; in which, if, thro? a natural delicacy of constitution, you are at any time remiss, it only furnishes these barbarians with a pretence to use you in the most cruel manner. They would hardly give me breathing time, and were perpetually upbrading me, as if it had been a crime, with the life of ease and pleasure I had lead before I fell into their hands. In short, they carried their cruelties so far, that at length I was unable to support them any longer, and fell into a disorder, which brought me to death's door. I was waiting with impatience for the coming of death, as the only remedy to my sufferings, when it pleased Heaven to deliver me
by a kind of miracle: 	It was as follows.
Muley Ismael, being come one day to see the works in which we were employed, thought fit at the same time to make a review of his slaves. They were accordingly brought all before him, excepting those only who were sick. The number of these latter was so great, that that the king express'd his astonishment at it, and resolved to make us a visit, in order to inform himself of the truth. The sight of this prince, who passed for a prodigy of cruelty, spread instant terror amongst us all: and not without reason; for we had frequently been told, that, on a visit of this kind, he has with his own hand cut off the heads of such as were thought past recovery: this he used to say, was "to spare them longer "sufferings." Every one therefore, at his first appearance amongst us, imagined, that this would be his own fate: for my part, I wished for it, as far as it is permitted a Christian to wish for an end to his sufferings. But Providence, who had disposed of me otherwise, wrought a sudden change in this monarch's heart. He was moved with compassion at the condition he saw us in, and commanded that we should be better treated for the time to come.
This act of generosity, so unexpected from a prince of his character, made such an impression on me, that notwithstanding the weak condition I was in, I could not forbear sending up my prayers to Heaven for his prosperity. He overheard me, and was so taken with my gratitude, that he stopt a while to talk with me. He put several questions to me, and, amongst the rest, of my birth, and how I came to fall into slavery? To which I answered, "Great King, you see before you a Spanish gentleman, taken by your corsairs as he was about to return to his own country. Six years are now past since I have groaned in the hardest and
most cruel captivity: but happily now, I am in momentary expectation of death, to put an end to it." "It was never my intention, replied the prince, with a gracious look, that any who belong to me should be treated with such severity, much less persons of your rank: but take courage, be assured I will soften your captivity." He then turned about and gave orders to his people, that I should be taken particular care of, and be brought up to Mequinez as soon as ever I was in a condition to travel.
The joy that I conceived at this fortunate event, joined to the great care that was taken of my recovery, presently restored me to my health; and as soon as it was proper to remove me, I was sent up to court, where they put me among the slaves who are particularly devoted to the service of the palace. The change of air and good living in this place put the finishing hand to my cure. As soon as I found my health perfectly re-established, I offered myself to perform the duties of my office: but Abdalla Ben-Aicha, who was steward of the houshold, ordered, that I should have a month's longer respite, till I had effectually recovered my strength.
I made use of this indulgence to walk about the gardens, and in the king's apartments, where I used frequently to spend whole afternoons at a time, as both the one and the other were at that time repairing, which took off all difficulty of access. The company of the other slaves, who were all busied in different occupations, and the relations they used to make me of their several adventures, served to amuse me during the time I led this idle life.
One day that the king came to see them work, I happened to be in the gardens looking at the masons, who had just been uncovering the palace, and were preparing to pull it down. I was surprised when I saw what they were about, as the building appeared to me quite new and good. I was about to enquire into the reason of this proceeding, when the prince spy'd me out, and taking me for one of the workmen, sent an officer to fetch me to him. As soon as I drew near, he knew me again. "Are you there, Andalouzi, said he, (for that was the name which Aliben Abdalla, the overseer of the slaves, had given me when I was first taken) I am glad to see you so well recovered: but what is it you are looking at so earnestly?" "My Lord, reply'd I, I was admiring the beauty of this building, and was considering what might be the reasons that engage your majesty to demolish it?" None but what are very natural, reply'd the king. The foundation of this palace, tho? so lately built, already threatens it with ruin: therefore, the only way to prevent the accidents that might happen, is to pull it down, and build another." "Your majesty's wisdom and discernment, said I, shew themselves in all that you do: but, might not a method be found to repair the foundation, and yet preserve the rest of so noble a pile, which must cost your majesty such immense sums to rebuild?" "Why, this is what I consulted my architects upon, replied the king; and they all declared it to be a thing impossible. But can'st thou fall upon a way of bringing about what thou hast proposed?" "Nothing is so easy, august monarch, answered I; and it is owing to the little commerce your people have with us Europeans, that make your architects ignorant of a thing that is daily practiced amongst us." "Is it so, said the prince? Why then, I charge thee with the execution of it, and place thee over them: and, to encourage thee to exert thy abilities, I begin by giving thee thy liberty; but on condition that thou shalt not leave me so long as I stand in need of thy assistance." In saying this, he ordered Abdalla Ben-Aicha to take off the little chain which I wore, and to see me drest in a manner suitable to my new dignity.
It is easy to conceive the joy I felt at this happy change in my circumstances; which, however, was a little clouded, by reflecting how long it must be e'er I could hope to revisit my native country, and see my dearest Sophia. But as mankind are ever apt to be flattered by prosperity, I promised myself, that I would soon be able to satisfy the king, and obtain permission to return to Europe. In this view, I set myself to work the very next day, and began by collecting all the strongest pieces of timber that could be found. These I placed
under the first storey of the building, to support it; and then had the old foundation demolished, and one built entirely new.
Muley Ismael, who had a great passion for building, and was extremely curious in every thing that related to architecture, seemed greatly to admire the ingenuity of this contrivance, and declared that he had not the least doubt that I should make good all that I had promised. In effect, I used such diligence in it, that, at the end of three months, the whole was compleat. The prince expressed the greatest satisfaction at the zeal I had shewn for his service; I thought this a favourable opportunity to solicit my return: but the very zeal he had so praised, proved the means of retaining me longer in captivity. "What! answered he smiling, would you quit me now that you have just shewn what you are capable of doing, and what assistance I may expect from you? No, no; it is too soon to lose you yet; and it is but just that you should pay for your ransom by a little complaisance. Listen to what I am going to say. I have for some time had a mind to build a new seraglio for my women: I am very well pleased that I have deferred the execution of it for some time, since you seem to me the most proper person I could have found to manage the work. Gratify me in this one particular; and, in return, I promise thee that thou shalt have full liberty to return home. I from this moment grant thee my permission."
I was not a little mortified to find my deliverance still deferred. But, as the words of kings are sacred, I flattered myself that my stay would not be very long, and that Muley Ismael would perform his promise, as soon as I had acquitted myself of this new commission. On this consideration, I begged that I might be directly conducted to the spot which he had pitched upon for the building. This was absolutely necessary: but I should have been very careful how I had made this request, had I known to what it would expose me. I was not a little surprised, when the next day he conducted me himself to the old seraglio. It is true, they had taken care to shut up all the women in their apartments, and that we visited no other places but the gardens, which were raised on terrasses, and form'd a kind of amphitheatre, very beautiful to the sight. I observed that the palace, which was very old, and built in the Gothic manner, was seated in a bottom, and must consequently be very unhealthy. "Thou art in the right, Andalouzi, replied the prince; and it is for this very reason, that I intend to have it rebuilt: but I am at a loss where to place it, as I would willingly preserve these gardens, which, as thou seest, are tolerably handsome." "To answer this purpose, replied I, your majesty may build it upon that neighbouring hill, from whence the prospect will be delightfully extensive, and the air wholsome and pure." "That is an excellent thought, replied the king; I now find thou hast a great deal of knowledge and taste: go set about measuring the ground, and draw up a plan, and it shall be put into execution immediately." After giving me these orders, he left me, and retired into the women's apartments.
In a few days I had my plan ready for his inspection: he approved of it greatly, and immediately ordered his treasurers to furnish me with whatever money I stood in need of.
His orders were punctually obeyed, and I set about my work; in which, partly by the hopes of the liberty he had promised me, partly the assistance of an immense number of workmen, and the liberal distributions the king order to be made amongst them, added to the zeal his presence inspired them with, scarce a day passing without his spending some hours in overlooking them; at the end of three months I had the building rais'd near 30 feet high, and upon a level with the wall of the gardens belonging to the old seraglio.
I had not as yet met with any adventures of gallantry, which was an extraordinary thing in a place where the very air breathes amorous infection; at which, tho? I was surprised, I was at the same time pleased: but there is no shunning destiny. One day, when I was mounted upon a scaffold, to inspect some part of the work, while the labourers were gone to their dinners, I saw a large stone fall at my feet, with a letter ty'd to it. I looked carefully on all sides, to see from whence it could come; but was not able to make the least discovery. I
pretended at first not to perceive it, and went on inspecting as before. But after a second reflection, I cast about for the best means of picking up this letter, without being observed. I effected it by the following stratagem: I let my foot slip, as if by accident, and, in endeavouring to recover myself, conveyed the letter into my bosom. However, I had prudence enough not to read it till I got home, when opening it, I found it contained as follows:
"F R O M the means I make use of to convey this letter to you, you may easily "judge that I have something of the greatest importance to communicate. Your looks, "the good character I hear of you, and the great confidence the king reposes in you, all "concur to assure me, that I am not addressing myself to an imprudent or senseless "person. I shall know by your readiness in satisfying the desire I have of seeing you, "whether you are deserving of the esteem you are held in. I shall expect you this "evening in the Green Salon; fall upon some means of coming thither. You shall have "no reason to repent of your compliance, and may perhaps find that I am not "unworthy of having something risk'd for my sake."
There was no name to this letter: but, as I knew by the writing it must come from some of the women in the seraglio, it gave me great uneasiness. I was apprehensive lest it might be a trap laid for me by the king, who was naturally of a jealous and mistrustful temper: or supposing, said I, that I may have made a conquest during the little time I have been here, it is equally the same; for the tender affection I bear to my lovely Sophia, will prevent me from taking notice of any advances of this nature. In either case, I am resolved to avoid any plot that may be laid for me, as it can be attended only with fatal consequences.
In consequence of this prudent resolution, I committed the letter to the flames, and thought of nothing but hastening my work. But how weak is Man! and how little able to promise himself the continuance of a first resolution! A second note, which was conveyed to me in the same manner as the first, and the sight of a most beautiful creature that I saw walking in the gardens, soon made me forget my former reflections. Forgive me, my dearest Sophia, if I here acknowledge what may perhaps offend you: but my heart, which never with-held a secret from you, is willing to convince you that it is still the same. The second note was couch'd in these terms:
"Y O U must certainly be very insensible, not to have yet answered the "proposal made you. I should have imagined, that you would have interested yourself "a little more in what concerns me. If you knew my sentiments, and the situation I am "in, I am persuaded I should not appear so indifferent to you. I shall expect you to-"night in the walk of Palm-Trees, to inform you of both. Consider, that you will be "the most cruel of men, if you fail in this; and that you will be answerable for all the "misfortunes that may happen to me. This is saying enough, if you have the least
"sensibility."	
The reading of this letter, which seemed expressed in pretty plain terms, and the sight of the beautiful creature, whom I supposed to be the writer, made me for that time forget my first prudent resolves, and banished from my heart every thought of fear. My whole attention was now employed upon the means of satisfying the desires of so amiable a person. I cast about for a long time, but without success. But love, which is ever ingenious, at length furnished me with what I was in search of.
I have already observed to you, that the building of the palace was now raised to a level with the walls which bounded the gardens of the old seraglio. One of the engines, which we made use of to raise the stones for the building, had by good fortune been left on that side of the wall next the seraglio. This appeard the most proper thing I could have found to facilitate my design. Accordingly, when it was night, I lowered myself down by a rope, which was fixed to it, and got to the place of rendezvous, where I met the fair one waiting for me. As soon as she saw me, she cried out to me in Spanish, "Is it you, Cid Andalouzi?" I was agreeably surpirised to hear her speak my own language: and the joy I had in finding myself with a person of my own country, dispelled a part of my fears. "Madam, said I, you are too well acquainted with the laws of the seraglio, not to know what hazard those run, who are bold enough to venture into it. I will not conceal from you, that this was, at first, the reason that prevented me from complying with your orders. But I should have obeyed the first summons, had you done me the favour of letting me see you before." "You are very gallant, Sir, said she; but, before I begin to acquaint you with my situation, we will, if you please, retire to a place where we may confer with greater security."
She then led me to a bye apartment, which she opened, and shut upon us again after we were entered. "Now Sir, said she, after we had taken our seats, you will doubtless be surprised at my proceeding; it is certainly a very extraordinary one: but what would not one do to preserve honour, life, and liberty? You know by experience how precious these are, and I see myself on the brink of losing them; and, what is more, must be obliged to purchase that loss with what I hold dearer than every other consideration in the world: in short, it must cost me my religion. This sacrifice Muley Ismael exacts of me in return to a passion which he has taken for me; and, without this sacrifice, he cannot raise me to the rank of Sultaness, with which he proposes to honour me. You know this prince, and that he is absolute in his will; judge then, Sir, of my grief, by the extremity to which you see me reduced: was it not enough to be torn from my family and friends, to behold the loss of an husband, to whom I was but just married, without being shut up in this detested seraglio; and, as the height of all disgrace, to see myself on the point of becoming the wife of a man whom my soul abhors, and who wants me to purchase this hateful honour by a vile apostacy? This, Sir, is my cruel situation; and this it is, that has obliged me to have recourse to you, to deliver me, if possible, from the brutal wishes of a Barbarian prince. You are a Spaniard, and yet more, a Christian; two things that inspired me with the hopes of bringing you over to my interest, and that my endeavours for this purpose would not prove vain. Grant then your assistance to an unfortunate creature, who places all her confidence in you, and who will for ever consider you as her guardian angel.
This speech, which was accompanied with a flood of tears, pierced my very soul: I lost all thought of danger; and, flinging myself at her feet, "Command, cried I, dearest lady, my life and fortunes; I will with joy sacrifice them both to free you from your sufferings. But alas! This sacrifice will still make you more wretched: for, allowing that I can free you from this place, which would be no very difficult matter to me, whom love has already taught the means of conveying himself hither, how shall we be able to escape the search of Muley Ismael? No Madam, no; as nothing is impossible to Love; so nothing can escape the eyes of an enraged, jealous, and all-powerful lover. Let me then advise you to defer for some time a project, the execution of which must certainly prove fatal. Time, which brings about all events, may furnish us with some unlook'd-for favorable opportunity; perhaps it may even now be nearer at hand than you yourself imagine. When it comes, you shall see whether or not my love is sincere, and if I fear to expose myself for your sake."
"No, no, I cannot wait much longer, Sir, said she; I see all the danger that threatens me, and cannot but have a grateful sense of the obliging fears you express on my account, and will for a little while follow your prudent advice: but, as my situation is of all others the most dreadful, let me engage your promise not to abandon me, and that I may depend upon your assistance the first opportunity."
Though my heart was not absolutely determined, yet I plainly found that I loved this beauty enough to refuse no-nothing for her sake. I therefore gave her the promise she desired of me, and she, on her side, to engage me more effectually in her interest, acquainted me with the circumstances relating to her birth and family, which was one of the most illustrious in Spain. She told me how she had been carried off by pirates a few days after her marriage; how she had the grief to see her husband perish in the sea, while he was endeavouring to rescue her from the hands of her ravishers; how she was brought into the seraglio, and how Muley Ismael became enamoured of her there.
This mournful relation, which she accompanied with whatever an afflicted woman could think most capable of moving the heart, lasted so long, that I found myself under a necessity of reminding her, that it was time for us to part, for fear of a surprise, as indeed it was very near day-break: we therefore left the place where we were, and I took my leave of her, after making her a thousand protestations of fidelity, and having agreed with her on a signal for waiting upon her when it was necessary.
We parted in a lucky moment: for, I had scarcely left her, when I heard a man cough at some few hundred yards distance from me. Though it was still so dark that I was in no danger of being seen by him, yet I could not help fearing that I was discovered, and that all was over with me. I now felt all the consequences of the rash step love had made me take, a sudden terror seized on all my senses, and I remained for a little time as motionless as a stone: but recovering soon from my fright, I began to think how I should avoid meeting this person. My first thought was, to turn into a labyrinth, which was at my left hand; but reflecting again, that I possibly could not find my way out of it again easily, I had recourse to another expedient.
Among the many ornaments, with which these magnificent gardens abounded, were a number of very beautiful statues: I had observed some few days before, that several of them had been removed from the pedestals on which they stood, for what reason I cannot tell. It happened by chance that I was at this time in the very place where there was one of these wanting, and it came into my head to supply its place. The white dress I then wore as the most suitable to the business I was employed in, together with the darkness of the night, favoured my design. Accordingly I got up upon the pedestal, not without a great deal of trouble, and put myself in the attitude in which I had seen the statue of Mahomet. I imagined, that the veneration the Moors have for their great prophet, would free me from any bad consequences to which my imprudence had subjected me: but this very supposition had nearly proved my ruin. The chief eunuch Hadgi Abselem, who was the person I had heard cough, came directly to the spot where I was, and made a full stop; and whether he took me really for the great prophet, or whether he had a mind to dissemble, (for he was quite alone) he prostrated himself before me and addressed a prayer to me, that would have made me laugh most immoderately at any other time. His prayer was so long, the fear I was under was so great, and the attitude I stood in so very painful, that I thought I must have fainted every instant: however, I was obliged to remain in the same posture near a quarter of an hour; at the end of which he arose, and kissing the pedestal on which I stood with great devotion, continued his way.
I did not wait for his getting into the palace, but instantly mounted by the same way I entered, and firmly resolved never more to expose myself to the like adventures. I continued some time in this prudent resolution, and should in all probability have done so much longer, but for two unforeseen accidents, which revived afresh in my breast a love that I had thought for ever extinct. The one was the news of the death of my dearest Sophia, which I learnt from a Spanish sailor, who had lately been taken prisoner by one of the corsairs. This threw me into a deep melancholy, which I was for a considerable time before I could get all the better of. When I came to be a little restored to my reason. it happened one day that Muley Ismael came, according to custom, to see how our work went on; and amused himself with talking to me for a longer time than usual, and with a freedom that I had never observed before. After some discourse relating to the matter in hand, "Andalouzi, said he, thou hast been in love, and therefore can'st not be ignorant how much a moment's delay costs the impatience of a lover: I wait only for the finishing of this building to complete all my joys; it is in this palace that I am solemnly to espouse a person whom I love to distraction, and for whose sake alone I have caused it to be built. Judge, then, whether the trust I repose in thee does not deserve they utmost assiduity? Make haste to answer my confidence, and before the end of the spring, if possible, let me have everything ready for the reception of her for whom I burn with the greatest impatience to possess." In so saying, he retired and left me.
These last words effectually revived a passion I had endeavoured to suppress: I now felt all the force of the impression her beauty had made on my heart. On the other hand, the supposed death of my first wife released me from all engagements, excepting those only due to her memory, which I ever preserved the tenderest sense of: so that I formed a thousand flattering schemes of happiness in a second marriage, if I should only be fortunate enough to rescue the fair object of my wishes from the confinement she was in. I now resolved to seek all opportunities of seeing her, and eagerly looked out for the signal agreed upon between us, which was a parrot to be hung out of the window of her apartment: several weeks passed without my seeing any thing of the kind; and, as the building was now nearly finished, the king declared his intended nuptials to all the great men of his court, and even fixed the day for their celebration, I now saw the fatal moment approaching, when this innocent victim was to be sacrificed to the hated passion of a despotic tyrant. I now reproached myself a thousand times for my baseness in having so long abandoned her to the power of a barbarian, and resolved, at all events, to deliver her out of his hands. But the removal of the engine, by the help of which I had got over the garden-wall, having been long removed on account of the building being almost finished, and the strict guard that was kept in the seraglio seemed to render all attempts fruitless, when love that had favoured me at first, now threw another opportunity in my way, by so much the more acceptable, as it came at a time when all other methods seemed at a stand.
As I was one day leaning in a musing posture upon a window that looked upon those of the apartment of my lovely captive, and ruminating on some stratagem to get at the speech of her, I saw the chief eunuch enter followed by several slaves. I was under a great surprise at this sudden visit, which was encreased when I saw him approach me with an air of trouble and concern, but when he began to speak he relieved me from my inquietude. "Cid Andalouzi, said he, saluting me, you see me here in the greatest perplexity: the king has just charged me with a commission which it will be impossible for me to execute without your assistance. He proposes to give a concert to his intended sultaness, and as she has expressed a desire of having an harpsichord, or a set of chamber organs, in order to make one in the band herself, his majesty has commanded me to procure one on any consideration. I immediately searched this city through, and have even sent to Sallé, but these kind of instruments being very seldom used by the people of this country, I have not been able to get tidings of one. In this dilemma I recollected, that as you are a Spaniard as well as the
sultaness, and have a correspondence with most of the Europeans here, you might perhaps assist me in finding what I myself may otherwise seek for in vain."
Tho? there seemed nothing more than ordinary in this affair, yet love that is ever penetrating and ready to find out a meaning in the most indifferent things, inspired me with a notion that there must be some mystery beneath. I could never suppose that one in the unhappy circumstances of the fair sultanness, could possibly join in any diversion with a man who was so much the object of her horror and hatred, much less offer herself as principal party in it. I therefore concluded it must be some stratagem she had made use of to procure me the means of seeing her, and I resolved to turn it to my advantage. I then answered Hadgi Abselem, "that it was my good fortune to have the very thing by me that he was in search of, and that I should think myself but too happy to have it in my power to contribute to the entertainment of the sultaness or his satisfaction." Joy was instantly lighted up in the eyes of the chief eunuch, and he embraced me a thousand times to testify his gratitude; and left me, telling me, "that he would immediately send some of his slaves to fetch the instrument from my house." As soon as he was gone I had the lock taken off the organ and a new one put on, and then gave my servants orders to deliver it to those who came for it. Having dispatched these necessary preparations, I went up into the room where it was, and shut myself up within side of it, where I was scarcely settled when the slaves of Hadgi Abselem came to fetch it away. They complained greatly at first of the weight of it, but after some effort they mastered it, and I was then conveyed into the old seraglio, and from thence was, by the chief eunuch's orders, carried into the young sultaness? apartment. She was just then alone, having either sent her women purposely out of the way, or they being employed about other business. Be that as it will, the eunuchs were no sooner withdrawn, than she got up to open the organ-case; but I spared her that trouble, by opening it myself with a key that I had brought with me, having, given a false one to the slave, to prevent any accident that might happen from their curiosity or that of their master.
But how great was her surprize, when she saw me come out of the instrument; the natural timidity of her sex overcame her, and she gave a cry that was near discovering all. "Take courage, madam, said I, I do not come here to surprise or terrify you, but in compliance with the promise I made you, and to assist you to the utmost of my power in the extreme danger in which I foresaw you must be; judge then of my love by the boldness of my attempt."
"Ah! sir, replied the sultaness, I should be guilty of a crime to doubt it after what you have done for me, nor will it be possible for me ever to forget it; my greatest misfortune is, that I am unable ever to repay the obligation; but, for heavens sake, complete what you have so nobly begun. You cannot be ignorant of the intentions of Muley Ismael, nor of the preparations making in the seraglio for the fatal day when the barbarian intends to force me to this detested union. You know my heart. Heaven, to whom when we last met, you advised me to have recourse, has deignd to inspire me with the means of preserving my honour and my faith from his brutal violence. One thing alone stops me, which is, that I stand in need of a vessel to bear me speedily from this barbarous land to Europe. I have cast my eyes on you for this purpose, and do not doubt that you will consent to grant me that favour, to which you are in some sort engaged. If it was love that brought you hither thro? all the thousand obstacles that guard the passage, the same power will assist you in this undertaking likewise, which will put the finishing stroke to the numberless obligations I already lye under to you."
"It would be wronging me to doubt an instant of my devotion to your service, adorable creature, replied I: you shall be satisfied you are too dear to this heart for me to refuse you any thing. I will instantly go to Sallé, and if I do not find a vessel ready to sail I will freight one against to morrow." Prudence would not permit us to waste longer time in parley, I returned to my hiding place, and the sultaness, having called up her women, ordered
them to send back the organ by the slaves that brought it, with word to me that one of the keys was out of order, which she desired me to repair as soon as possible, and send back the instrument as soon as it was done. I was accordingly carried back to my own house, where I no sooner found myself alone, than I came out and prepared for my journey to Sallé, telling my people that I was going there for a day or two on business relating to the building. At my arrival I addressed myself to a French merchant of my acquaintance, requesting him to procure me a convenient place for concealing a young lady, in whose safety I was particularly interested.
It must be owned, to the honour of that nation, that none more readily and chearfully devote themselves to the service of others, even strangers; in fact this gentleman bestirred himself so zealously and effectually, that notwithstanding the delicate nature of the commission I had given him, he acquitted himself of it entirely to my satisfaction. Having now taken every necessary measure, nothing remained but to give the young sultaness advice of what I had done, that she might be ready on her part; to this purpose I inclosed the following billet in the organ, when I sent it back to her.
"EVERY thing is put in tune, according to your orders; so that I hope the "concert will go on without interruption, provided the person to whom the instrument "belongs, performs her part properly. It would give me the highest satisfaction to "have contributed towards it; and I beg leave to assure her, that I have in every point "punctually obeyed her commands, and wait with the greatest impatience for the "event."
I gave this equivocal turn to my letter least Hadgi Abselem's curiosity might induce him to look into the organ, but it seems my precaution was needless; for I learnt afterwards that he made his eunuchs carry it into her apartment without once opening it. The concert was performed the next day; and I was told that the sultaness gave such admirable proofs of the sweetness of her voice, and the excellency of her play, that Muley Ismael became more than ever enamoured of her. I now waited with the greatest impatience for the event of our scheme. The night was pretty far advanced, and no one as yet appeared; which made me imagine that we were either discovered, or that the sultaness had put off her project till another opportunity. In this state of anxiety I was passing the moments in a manner not easy to be described, when one of my servants came running to inform me, that the old seraglio was all in flames and every thing in the utmost confusion. This alarming news made me tremble for the life of my adorable sultaness, and I was flying to her assistance when I found myself stopt by a person whom at first I did not know. This was no other than the sultaness herself: "Whether are you running, Cid Andalouzi, said she to me, have you forgot the promise you made me yesterday, on which I have placed all my dependence? Is it thus that you mean to perform it?" "Ah! madam, cry'd I, I am ready to lay down my life for your service, I was this minute flying to your rescue; but what good angel delivered you from the flames?" "That you shall know hereafter, replied the sultaness; the moments are now too precious to be wasted: let us be gone this instant: convey me to the house of some of your friends till the time of our departure. I carried her directly to the house of a Spanish merchant of my acquaintance; and, having procured her an European dress, made her pass for a Spanish slave, that Muley Ismael had made me a present of. In order to render her escape more easy, I had ordered fresh horses to be kept ready at every Adouar or inn between Mequinez and Sallé: this was an easy matter for me to do, Muley Ismael having made me a present of five and twenty of his horses, and two post-chaises, on account of the frequent journeys I was obliged to take in virtue of the employment he had conferred on me: I
therefore ordered one of these to be got ready directly, and mounting with my fair fugitive, we made the best of our way for Sallé.
The warm interest I took in her misfortunes, and the singularity of her escape, made me curious to know how she had avoided the common ruin which seemed to threaten those who were in the seraglio when it was one fire. "You must know the, said she, that it was myself who set fire to it. In despair at seeing myself in the power of a tyrant, who would force me to be his wife, I thought that I might attempt every thing to free myself from his arms. This method, tho? a desperate one, appeared to me to be the most sure, since I knew it would be easy for me to escape from my guards, while the seraglio was in such a confusion; and that, imagining me to be perished in the flames, they would never entertain the least suspicion of my flight. By this means likewise I secure you from any inquiries that Muley Ismael may make during the time you have to stay in his court. Alas! what would I not have undertaken for a person who has given me so many marks of a sincere affection, and has exposed himself to so many dangers for my sake?"
Love never exerts itself so strongly as when we are on the point of losing the beloved object. This I experienced on the present occasion. I figured to myself the dangers that awaited us both. She alone, and amidst strangers on the wide sea. Me, at my return to Muley Ismael's court, whither my design at first was to return. The fury I foresaw he would be in, and which gave me the most dreadful apprehensions on one side; and, on the other, the love I bore to his beautiful captive, determined me to accompany her in her flight. I signified my intention to her, and asked her permission to put it in execution; adding, at the same time, all I thought necessary to convince her of my passion. She received my declaration and offer, in a manner that perfectly satisfied all my doubts, and I was now absolutely determined. There was only one circumstance which gave me uneasiness, which was the want of money: for, as my departure was so sudden, I had brought no more with me than was just necessary to defray the present expences, and to pay for the passage of my lovely charge. She soon perceived my uneasiness, and, guessing at the reason, put into my hands a little casket of jewels, which she had brought with her from the seraglio; telling me, that there was sufficient to supply all our wants. I kissed her hand, and returned her thanks, in the warmest manner, for this instance of her generosity: this gave birth to a thousand tender things on both sides.
If love has its moments of sorrow and vexation, it has likewise those which fully repay us for all our sufferings: such were these which I now passed with my love sultaness; and, nowithstanding the length of the way between Mequinez and Sallé is pretty considerable, yet it never appeared so short as at that time. It was yet night when we got into Sallé, and we had the pleasure to find the wind, of which there appeared to be a brisk gale, favorable for us. The vessel, on board which we were to embark, was ready for sailing, and the captain began to grow impatient at our stay. We found him waiting at the French merchant's I mentioned before, who received us with all that cordiality and politeness so customary to their nation. Having settled all matters relating to our passage with the captain, who was overjoyed to find, that, instead of one passenger, he was to have two, we took leave of the generous merchant, with a thousand offers of service, if ever we arrived in Europe: and putting ourselves under the conduct of the captain, he carried us in his boat on board the vessel; and, the wind being favorable we immediately got under sail, and made such good way, that, by day-break, we were fifteen leagues distance from Sallé: the Heavens, which favoured us at our departure, continued to smile upon us during the whole time of our little voyage: so that, at the end of three days, we arrived safely in the port of Cadiz, where we landed, in all the transports of joy that the sight of one's native country, after a long captivity, may be supposed to inspire. My lovely companion immediately dispatched away a messenger, to acquaint her friends of her arrival; who returned the next day, and with him, her father, Don Gonzalez d'Oreltanos. Never was interview more truly affecting. The
venerable old man was near expiring with joy and pleasure; and his lovely daughter could not refrain from tears at the sight of a father whom she loved so tenderly, and whom perhaps she might never have beheld again, but for my assistance. Don Gonzalez, after having given her every mark of parental tenderness in his power, was impatient to know the history of her adventures: she readily complied with his desire, and related to him every part of her story, in which I bore no small share, as having been the instrument, in the hands of love, to deliver her from all her troubles. I observed with pleasure, that, when she came to that part of her narrative, she expressed herself with more than usual warmth and vivacity, which plainly shewed her heart not to be wholly insensible of what I had done for her.
No sooner had she finished her story, than Don Gonzalez got up, and clasping me in his arms, "Generous cavalier, said he, how shall I find terms to express my gratitude for what you have done for my ear child? services of this kind can never be sufficiently repaid: and, if the joy I feel this day, and which I owe entirely to you, is capable of suffering any allay, it is in the reflection that fortune has only left me a moderate competency: but, as you are too generous to expect impossibilities, I flatter myself you will be contented to share that little with us: as to myself, happy in having recovered by dearest child, I renounce all the other riches of life, and only wish to survive the excess of this day's joy, to give you proofs of my gratitude."
"Seignor, replied I, I should render myself unworthy of your generosity, was I to think of accepting it. I know not what motives induced you to make me so noble an offer: but this I know, that there is but one alone that can prevail upon me to accept it, which is by joining to it your lovely daughter's hand. I will not conceal from you, that I have loved her for a considerable time, and that it was this passion which made me attempt every thing for her sake. If you think I am deserving of any recompence, let it, I beseech you, be this; and thus lay me under an obligation to you for the whole happiness of my life. The blood which runs in my veins, and the hopes that charming lady has flattered me with, embolden me to make this demand. The house of Frontiera, of which I have the honour to be, may not, perhaps, appear unworthy your alliance: and if the fortune of the marquis my father is not so
considerable"	"Good Heavens! cried Gonzalez, what do I hear! The marquis de
Frontiera! Why, he is one of my best friends; and are you his son? What joy have I in embracing, in the person of a cavalier, to whom I owe such infinite obligations, the son of my honoured friend! And even, had you not had this advantage, your generosity has already recommended you so strongly to me, that I should think myself guilty of the highest ingratitude, to refuse you any thing you thought fit to ask. Rest assured, then, of my consent: I give it you with the greatest satisfaction, provided my daughter does not refuse her's."
At these words we both of us cast our eyes on her; he, to observe the effect of his speech; and I, to receive a sentence that was to determine the future happiness or misery of my life. She blushed at seeing our eyes fixed on her, and for some time kept a silence that gave me the most dreadful apprehensions. "Ah! Madam, cried I, in a transport of grief, you blush, and make no reply. Were then the fond hopes, with which I flattered myself, mere chimaeras? And shall I reap no other fruit from all my love and assiduity, but to have made
my own situation more wretched than before	" I was going to proceed, when she stopt
me, by saying, "The silence you so much complain of, Sir, was not owing to my indifference for you, and you injure me by the suspicion: no one can be more sensible of the obligations they lie under than myself; and if it would be ingratitude in my father to refuse you the reward you ask, I should still be more culpable, was I to add disobedience to ingratitude. He has prescribed me my duty, and I chearfully comply with it."
These words restored me again to life, and Don Gonzalez to his former satisfaction: he embraced us both tenderly, and from that time treated me as his child. I would have set out the next day for Frontiera, to throw myself at my father's feet, and acquaint him with this joyful news. But Don Gonzalez, and his daughter, insisted upon my going with them to their estate, where they detained me for several days; nor would suffer me to depart, but upon condition that I brought my father back with me.
There are some sensations which can be better felt than exprest. Of this kind was the joy my father felt at seeing me arrive. An absence of ten years, during which time he had never heard the least tidings of me, had given him reason to believe, that I had shared the same fate with the rest of my brothers, who were all dead; some in the service of their country, and others of a natural death. My unexpected return appeared like a dream to him. He was for some moments in doubt whether it was me or not that he beheld. When he was at length recovered from the agreeable surprise, he loaded me with a thousand caresses, and bathed my face in a flood of tears. It was not possible for me to retain mine at the sight of a person whom I held so dear, and from whom I had been so long separated. As soon as the first embraces were over, he eagerly enquired into the case of so long an absence. I related to him all that had happened to me, from my going to Portugal to the time of my escape from captivity. If the relation of my sufferings caused him to shed tears; the story of my love, and of my marriage with the daughter of Don Gonzalez, gave him as much joy. Charmed with the generosity of the father and the daughter, he resolved to satisfy the desire they both expressed of seeing him; and we set out together for my father-in-law's house, where our presence brought with it unspeakable joy. My marriage with the lovely daughter of Gonzalez was celebrated a few days after our arrival, and put the finishing stroke to our general happiness, had there been any such thing as lasting happiness upon earth. But whatever relates to man, partakes of the weakness of his nature; and the more sensible he is to the objects that surround him, the more subject they are to change. The happiness which I tasted with my new spouse, was soon clouded by the death of my father, which happened in a very short time after I was married. I should have been inconsolable at this loss, had I not found in Gonzalez and his lovely daughter all that was capable of alleviating the severest sorrow. But, alas! I soon lost one part of this consolation; for, in less than a month afterwards, the good old man Gonzalez himself was taken from us, and the loss threw his charming daughter into the same excess of grief with which I myself was a short time before overwhelmed.
In spite of all my endeavours to comfort her for this loss, she would certainly have sunk under it, had I not fallen on an expedient to divert her melancholy, which was, to take her with me to the castle of Frontiera, under pretence that my presence was necessary there to settle some matters relating to the fortune left me by my father at his decease. We lived there for near four years, in which time I saw myself the father of several children; but it pleased God to take them all to himself. If the loss afflicted me as a parent, the grief it gave to my wife touched my soul more sensibly: she was in a manner inconsolable: the castle of Frontiera became now as insupportable to her as that of Orellanos had been; so that I could think of no other way to free her from these melancholy reflections, but by taking her with me to Portugal. As my family were originally of this kingdom, we were still possessed of some estates in it, which my father left behind him when he went into Spain. She readily gave her assent to this journey when I proposed it: we accordingly set out and arrived at Evora, where I am at present fixed, as lying the most contiguous to the lands I have in this part of the kingdom.
We have been now three months in that village; which we should not have left perhaps for a long time, had not a friend of my wife's invited us to take share with her in the diversions of the vintage, on which occasion we came hither. To this party I am indebted for meeting with my dear Sophia, whom I thought lost for ever. "Forgive me, lovely Thecla,
continued the cavalier, turning to his second wife, who was there present, forgive me this seeming infidelity, if I make you a witness to my resuming my former engagements: you must be sensible they are such as cannot be dissolved but with life, and have a prior right to your's. There is no pledge remaining of those I entered into with you: if we have been mistaken or unfortunate in our loves, it is wholly owing to ignorance and an honourable intention: there is nothing criminal in it in the eyes of God. These engagements must now cease: religion requires us to dissolve them. But if in this I satisfy the dictates of my conscience, think not, my dear Thecla, that I will ever abandon you: No! tender companion of my joys and sorrows, you have been too dear to this heart for it ever to be indifferent to you. But if my Sophia's claim prevents it from being wholly your's, you may at least depend upon its being filled with the most lively and sincere friendship for you. Let me conjure you to put it to the trial, and come and share with us as you and I have hitherto done the fortune of both: I request this of you, in the name of that tender affection we have burnt for each other, in the name of my wife, who seems too sensible of your disappointment, not to contribute all in her power to make it easy for you."
While the cavalier was speaking thus, the lovely Thecla was bathed in her tears. The company, who had listened to this relation with the greatest attention, pitied her in their hearts, and could not but admire the caprice of fate, which sports with the affairs of human kind. But what was their surprize, when they saw the new bridegroom start from his seat, and throw his arms around that lovely mourner. "My dearest Thecla, cried he, all transported, is it a dream! May I credit my eyes! Is it you I beheld? Alas! you are afraid to look on me! You answer me not! Have you then quite forgot your dear Juan de Velez? Ah! you thought me long since dead, as I, on my part, thought Providence had taken you to itself: but return from this error; behold your husband who calls you, and who from this instant is ready to renew his former engagements, and will not part with you but with life. Will you not speak to me, lovely Thecla? Do you blush to own an husband who adores you?" "Alas! replied Donna Thecla, (whom surprize had prevented from speaking when she saw her first husband in the person of the new bridegroom) Alas! replied she, I blush rather at my own infidelity: but, if any thing can excuse me to you, let it be, that this seeming inconstancy was involuntary." "Excuse, you my dearest Thčcla! cried the enraptured Don Juan; excuse you! Ah! rather let me ask for pardon! me, whom you behold before your eyes, fallen into the same error. But what need is there for excuses on either side? It is the will, and not the act, that makes the crime. Cease then to reproach yourself for what I am alone guilty of, if there is any guilt. Let the example of the marquis de Frontiera, and his dear Sophia, calm all your scruples: chance divided them, and love has brought them together again, after an absence of ten years. Let us then, like them, resume our former engagements, and forget every past misfortune of our lives."
Donna Thecla could no longer resist the force of his reasoning: she yielded to the remonstrances of her husband, who now related to her all that had happened to him since their cruel separation; and how he had excaped from the dangers of the sea by swimming; and that, being arrived in safety at Lisbon, he had used all his endeavours to learn some news of her; but to no purpose, till late; when he had been informed that she was burnt in Muley Ismael's seraglio, which had unfortuntely taken fire.
"Alas, said Sophia to the marquis of Frontiera, it was about the same time that I heard you likewise had perished in the flames, as you was endeavouring to save the king's favourite sultaness: and thinking myself a widow, I yielded to the repeated importunities of Don Juan, who was himself a widower, to make me his wife. Fortune at length, wary of persecuting us, now restores us to each other. Nothing remains, but to return Heaven thanks for its goodness; and to consult Mr. Licentiate here how we must act in this affair, to renew the former bands by which we were united."
"Upon my word, replied Don Antonio very gravely, I know not what to say to it: this a ticklish business. For here I married you yesterday to Don Juan, who has doubtless made use of an husband's right; in which case your marriage cannot be dissolved. And, as to that between the marquis and Donna Thecla, it is still more binding, on account of four year's possession: so that really I don't see how we can clear all this up. Ah! if I had but a Sanchez de Matrimonio here now, or if any of my brethren who have just left us had been present at this discovery, it would have been of great assistance to me, for they were learned and skilful men." "I see no occasion, uncle, said I, for so much learning to decide this question: the solution appears to me very natural. Marriage is an engagement, which, when entered into, is not to be broken, but by the death of one or other of the parties. Now here they are all living: consequently, the first marriages remain in full force; and those contracted since, are, in the eye of reason, absolutely void."
"Are you sure of that, said my uncle?" "I think, Sir, said I, the least reflection may serve to convince you of it. But, if you must have authority to secure you, look into St.
Thomas d'aquinas, and you will find	" "Nay, nay, interrupted Don Antonio hastily,
if St. Thomas says so, it must be so to be sure. But, added, he we must give the sanction of form to your marriages again, good folks; for, do you see, you stand here as widowers both of you. Chance has brought you and your first wives together again; now, as this is to you a second marriage, the church must not lose any part of its dues." The two husbands very readily promised him, that they would pay every thing that was requisite for renewing the ceremony; and that he should not lose any part of his fees. They then embraced one another as affectionate friends, and took each his own wife: after which the young lord, who had brought the company with him, carried them all back to his castle with him; and would fain have had us accompany them thither: but Don Antonio excused himself on account of his gout; and I, on the necessity there was of my keeping him company.
 X.
Description of the lives of the curates in Portugal. A story on this subject.
D. Antonio's library. Return from the chace. The circumstances attending it.
WE now saw ourselves as solitary as we had but a few moments before been full of company. The first thing the licentiate thought of on this occasion, was to order supper to be got ready as soon as possible. I could not help being surprised at this, as it was hardly two hours since we had risen from table, where we had spent best part of the afternoon; and remarked as much to my uncle, who answered me, "that there was nothing in that, for he was always regular in his hours of eating; and that if he should deviate from his time but a few seconds it would go near to cost him a fit of sickness. Would you thing it, nephew, added he, with a very serious tone, I was very near fainting away the other day only by being obliged to stay till some soop which I had put into my plate to cool, was fit to eat. Out bodies are like clocks, which are quickly out of order, if they are not wound up regularly; therefore as I would not willingly break in upon the good state of health I at present enjoy, I take care d'ye see to provide for the wants of the body at its stated times, notwithstanding any good meal that may come in between whiles."
"They are very happy who can lead so regular a life, said I to my uncle." "Why ay, reply'd he, I have lead this life for these thirty years past, and the good case you see me in may convince you there is nothing wrong in it. But you will be the better able to judge of it, if you will but once, try it. And ó propos, nephew, as you are now of an age, in which young people generally make choice of the way of life they intend to follow, may I ask you how you purpose to dispose of yourself?" "I believe, said I, my father would gladly have me take the
long robe, but my mother opposes it, and is for having me by all means to be a monk." "Well and I, said the licentiate, drawing himself up with a magisterial air, will have you to be a curate. My brother and sister are two old fools, and don't know what they would be at. Are you cut out, think you, for a frock or a long robe? A fat living! A fat living, nephew! That is your mark." In answer to all this I observed to him, "that there was so much knowledge and uprightness of life requisite to filling the ministerial function worthily; that I was afraid I was not as yet duly prepared for it." "Stuff! mere stuff! cry'd my uncle. Knowledge! Why I did not know near so much of the matter as you do when I was first put in possession of this living; and yet, as you see, I have maintained myself in it to this day, and not without some honor too, let me tell you. To be able to read a little, and write a tolerable good hand; to be perfectly master of the treatise of tythes, and to have a genteel manner of entertaining company, is as much as it required of any incumbent now-a-days. By the help of this he may live in ease and pleasure, and fatten on the plenty of the land, as you may be partly able to judge from the small specimen you have had since you have been in my house. What you have seen is nothing extraordinary, it is my usual method of living with my neighbouring brethren who are all hearty cocks, are they not? Now pray tell me what way of life can you pitch upon which affords more happiness and content?"
"It must be owned, answered I, that to speak with the world, nothing can surpass the pleasant life you and your brethren lead here. Pleasure seems to rise under their footsteps. They go from play to the table, and from the table to other diversions perhaps not quite so innocent; but in my opinion this way of life very ill suits with the notions we have of the priesthood, and still less so with the doctrine these gentlemen preach, who tell us, that the life of a christian while on earth should be a continual state of spiritual combat and mortification. If so, they cannot certainly be christians themsevles, as they never either mortify the flesh or enter into any combat, unless those which they had between themselves a while ago about prince Albanius, be reckoned of the number. For my part, I have a great respect for your curates, not only on account of their character, but as being your friends; and yet I must own to you freely, that I should be much better pleased to see them in the king's service than in their present state, as I am certain they would acquit themselves much better in the one than the other." "They would be very sorry for the change, nephew, said my uncle, and with great reason too, let me tell you that: in the army, do you see, there is always one who commands and will make himself obey'd; now in the church it is quite different, for we are the masters, and others must obey us. There every thing passes under the eye of a just and equitable prince, who seldom rewards any but those who merit it, either on account of their behaviour or the length of their services; here on the contrary, rewards are frequently bestowed without the least merit or service, accordingly we see several officers who quit the army to enter into orders; nay, I myself know several, who after having been driven out of their regiments have thrown themselves upon the church, and are now in possession of some of the chief dignities in it.
D. Antonio would perhaps have continued his discourse much longer, had not the coming in of the servants with supper interrupted him; for as all the faculties of his mind while at table were wholly employed upon the dishes before him, the conversation turn'd upon the goodness of the sauces, which were the richest and highest seasoned that could be made. He insisted upon my sitting down with him, and eating of a fine remoulade, which had been made of the best of every thing that he been left at dinner. But seeing that he could not prevail upon me neither by his most pathetic remonstrances nor his own example, "Ah! said he, thou wilt never make a good parson, I see that, for you want the two principal qualifications, which is to eat well, and drink well." I could not help smiling at this sally of the reverend epicurean, but was not in the least disposed to convince him of the contrary by following his example. After a very hearty meal, which did not last above an hour and an
half, he began to think of returning to bed, and called for his young nurse to conduct him thither, as it was part of her office to undress him every (which his unwieldy size rendered in some sort excusable) she began to perform it in my present, but as I thought it favoured a little too much of indecency, I took that piece of service upon myself, which continued during my stay there.
The next morning I went into his chamber about ten o'clock, which I knew was the usual time of his rising. After the first compliments we began to talk of indifferent things, for I had observed that my uncle had neither a capacity nor taste for serious or interesting subjects. Our conversation began to grow pretty lively when we were interrupted by a countryman, husband to the woman who dy'd the day before, who was now come to desire my uncle to bury her. "To be sure Perez, said he, but what sort of a funeral wouldst have? Thou knowst there are of all prices."
The countryman made answer, "that he would gladly have it as decent a burial as might be for the satisfaction of their friends." "I commend your piety Perez, said the good curate, go my lad, your wife shall be buried like an empress. She shall be interred in the church, I will order all the bells to be tolled, and myself will say a fine high mass over her, with the richest ornaments, and all this shall cost thee no more than six ducats, because thou art a friend of mine."
"Six ducats, cry'd Perez, half frightened out of his wits, six ducats! wounds! a was neaver worth so much all her leaf time. Why you be joaking us zure maister curate. Ods zookers, I do'ant intend it shall coast me more nor six crusades, and yet have a very foin one too."
"Why then, reply'd D. Antonio, thou mayst have her buried where and by whom thou wilt, for I will never do it for less. I must live, and I should soon be starved if I was to bury at the price thou talkst of."
"Noa, noa, cry'd the countryman, grinning and scratching his head, there's noa vear of that Ise warrant ye, soa long as you keep such a corporation! Live sir! Why you may live zure without eating people up alive, or vleecing a poor devil of a countryman of six ducats. Bezides, if what Ise ask of you was to coast you ony thing or would be of any great zarvice to the poor creature that's dead, one moight perhaps make the matter up with you, but will it coast you any thing moar to have her leaid in the church than in the church-yard. Dost zink that the twanging of the bells will carry her saul the zooner to heaven. Come, come, measter Aletes, hearken to reason, and as it coasts you nothing, and iven not zignify a vigs end to her, e'en be contented with six crusades, or by my holy dame Ise bury her myself in the corner of our varm yard, and zee who'll be the loaser by that."
"Oh! I should be glad to see that, said the licentiate in a fury, do you know, sirrah, that I have a great mind to report you to the holy inquisition; I have reason enough for it already, why the defunct died like a beast without having taken the sacraments." "Vary true, said Perez, but whose vault was that preay? If any body is to be called to an account for that it will not be us Ise sure of that." "That signifies nothing, said D. Antonio, it is no matter how it came about, the thing is so, and that is sufficient to get thee burnt alive."
All the good sense and elocution which the countryman had hitherto shewn, failed him at this menace of the curate's as ridiculous as it was. But, indeed, his fears were not altogether without foundation, for there has been more than one instance of unhappy wretches being condemn'd to the stake by that horrid tribunal, for as trifling causes. His apprehension then got the better of him, and he began to sound a parley. "Wall, wall, Ise zee, said he, that we must all pay this holy tax, and dead or alive there's no zcaping you; howfomdever, I bequest your reverence to consider that Ise but a poor peazant, and have two children left upon my hands by the death of my wife."
"You are very badly off, indeed, said D. Antonio, I think I am the greatest loser of the two by this accident. Thy wife was a young woman, and might have had a great number of children more had she lived. Here are just so many christenings out of my pocket, without reckoning the marriages and inter-marriages that would have followed of course; and notwithstanding all this, you think much of my asking you six ducats! Hearkye, honesty, if I had calculated all this before, you should not have escaped for double the sum.
These curious reasonings seemed to have very little effect on the countryman; he
represented his poverty and the multitude of taxes that he was loaded with, and in short made use of arguments that might have softened the most flinty heart; but all that he could obtain of D. Antonio, after abundance of intreaties, was the remission of one half of the sum, and that only on condition that he would not tell the rest of the peasants how much he had been favoured.
As soon as he was gone the licentiate got up, and went to the church to wait for the
corpse, for as he was a person of great consequence in his parish, he never accompanied the procession unless he was very well paid for it. I attended him in order to see how the ceremony would be conducted. Indeed he did not make me wait long, for never was a greater volubility of tongue than he displayed on this occasion. The high mass was not above half as long as a common one; the decorations of the altar were some of the most ordinary ones, in short, master Perez was served for his three ducats.
As soon as the ceremony was over we returned home, and immediately sat down to table, We had none but ourselves to dinner, and so it was over in about two hours, when the cloath was taken away D. Antonio threw himself, according to custom, upon a sopha, to take his afternoon's nap, and I finding myself left alone, thought to pass away the time in reading. I had brought no books with me, as I imagined I should find enough at the licentiates; acccordingly as soon as I heard him begin to snore, I went into his closet and began to look for his library; I opened all the places, and haunted in every corner, but the devil a book could I find.
At last, after a long search, I happened to cast my eyes on a table which was covered with papers, which I though might be of consequence: and going to remove a parcel without looking at them, I fell upon a little book, entitled, The art of drinking *, a poem, translated into Portuguese from the Latin.
As the subject was neither interesting in itself nor suited my taste, I did not give myself the trouble of perusing it, tho? it appeared to me to have been much used, and I thought I saw some notes in it of my uncle's hand writing.
The discovery was followed by another still more curious. It was a book of nearly the same size with the former, entitled, Pugna Porcorum: + the battle of the swine. The near resemblance the title of this book bore to the battle I had been an eye witness to the day before, made me throw it aside. And here ended all my discoveries, at least of any consequence, for in the course of my search I only found an old Breviary without a cover, with the beginning and end torn out, and a directory which had been out of date for above twelve years. These four volumes made the whole of D. Antonio's library, nor had he ever had any other during the thirty years he had been curate.
* De arte Bibendi: a Latin poem in several books, in imitation of Ovid's Art of Love.
+ Another Latin poem, the author of which must certainly have been an original. It is written in hexameter serfe, and all the words begin with a P as in the following serfe which is the first of the book, [Plaudite, Porcelli, Porcorum, Pigra, Propago,] the rest of the poem is all in the same taste.
Having finished my search, I returned to the room where I had left my uncle, whom I found still asleep, and therefore sate down with an intent of reading the little poem I had brought with me. I should soon have read it through had I not been interrupted by a loud noise of horses feet and the winding of hunting horns, which made my uncle at the same time start from his sleep. This was occasioned by a dozen gentlemen of the neighbourhood, who, in their return from hunting, had called at our house to refresh themselves. After they had put their horses and their dogs into the stables, they came to pay their compliments to the licentiate, and to present him with a part of their game. The honest churchman returned the civility by ordering a number of bottles of wine to be set before them, which were emptied in an instant. D. Antonio seeing this, called for a fresh supply, but the gentlemen, who were no less nimble than thirsty, had already taken care of that article, a party having been detached to the cellar, whilst another was stripping the larder of all they could find in it. They were so ravenous that they tore the victuals out of each others hands, and did not give over eating while there was a morsel of any thing drest left in the house. When they had dispatched the present provision they were obliged to make a stop till what was laid down to the fire could be got ready. However, they made themselves pretty well amends with the wine, which they poured down in ample measure. As soon as the rest of the victuals was brought in, they fell to without mercy, and plates, dishes, and bottles did nothing but pass and repass. All their discourse was about the excellence of the wine and the hospitality of their worthy neighbour D. Antonio, whose good cheear they said was the admiration of all the country round. These doings lasted till the day was pretty well shut in, and then these obliging gentlemen got on horseback again, leaving their landlord poorer by half a hogshead of wine, than they had found him.
END of the FIRST BOOK.

THE HISTORY OF Don Ranucio d'Aletes.
 I.
A picture of the financier D. Matthew de Grapina and his wife.
What happened to two monks at his house.
A description of his house, his library, and his collection of shells.
HOWEVER pleasing the life he led might appear to my uncle, I, for my part, began to grow heartily weary of it. What doings are here, said I to myself! their whole time is spent in eating, drinking and sleeping. Is this a life for a reasonable creature? I no longer wonder that our clergy, for the most part, are so remarkable for their brutishness and stupidity. Was there nothing else to deter me from entering into the state, but the being obliged to lead such a life, it would be more than sufficient to give me a disgust to it for the rest of my days. No, no; I will have nothing to do with a state in which the professors are equally a dishonor to it, and to themselves, by their riot and debauchery.
In consequence of these reflections, I resolved to be present at these kind of meetings as seldom as possible for the future: and, as the village did not want for company, I endeavoured to find a set of acquaintance, where I might meet with less noise, and more sobriety: and, for this purpose, I cast my eyes on the lord of the manor, whose house was the rendezvous of all the genteel company in that part of the country; and I was the more encouraged to this, as his son, whom I had seen the evening before at Don Antonio's, appeared to me to be a person of a sprightly turn, and social disposition.
Accordingly I went the next day to the castle, where Don Alexander (for that was the young gentleman's name) received me with the greatest politeness. He presented me to Don Matthew de Grapina, his father, who even improved upon the reception I met with from his son. He was a man of a mean aspect; and his understanding seemed altogether as gross as his person. His behaviour had nothing of delicacy or politeness in it; but that was made up by a great openness and generosity. I am apt to believe he did not always possess these good qualities; and for this reason, that he had made an immense fortune, by having the
management of the king's farms. However, on the whole, he received me very handsomely, except the want of a little politeness, which was very pardonable in a man who rose from the dregs of the people, and consequently could not have had any opportunities of being acquainted with the rules of good-breeding in his younger days: and was now too old to begin to learn them.
As for Donna Cameria, his wife, she was, if possible, still more deficient. Upon being conducted into the room where she was, I found her engaged in a party of cards: she took little or no notice of the compliment I made her at my first salutation, but was immediately for clapping the cards into my hand, insisting that I should make one of the party: I excused myself with all the good manners I could, telling her, that I should think I did great injustice to her agreeable company and conversation, if I suffered the cards to deprive me of an opportunity of entertaining her a while. The more I refused, the more urgent she grew in her intreaties; and I do not know when she would have given over, had not the company shewn their impatience at being detained so long from their game.
Though I had ever a great dislike to the company of gamesters; yet my complaisance and curiosity together, got the better of me for this time; I could not deny myself the pleasure of seeing what would become of two monks, whom I found engaged at play with her, and who revenged themselves on their ill-luck, by venting a thousand curses against the cards. I plainly perceived, both by their countenances and behaviour, that their purses were at the last gasp. In short, in a very few minutes time, the lady eased them entirely of their load: but tho? they saw themselves stript of their last ducat, they were as eager for play as ever.
And now they began to redouble their oaths and imprecations; they cursed the cards, card-maker, game, and all to the devil, over and over again. The one swore he had lost every farthing he had been scraping together the whole Lent before. Another, that he had lost a guardianship, which he was to have purchased for sixty ducats, which were now all gone. While these venerable fathers were thus venting their choler against the lady who had won their money, she was so wholly taken up in reckoning her gains, that she had not time to attend to what they were saying: and I, for fear of being drawn in to play with her in my turn, (for, as she was upon the winning strain, there was no getting clear of her), rose hastily from my chair, and left the table.
Don Matthew, who, as well as myself, was heartily weary of play, proposed my going with him, to take a little refreshment. I excused myself at first; but the old man grew so pressing, that I could not refuse him. After we had drank a glass or two, Don Alexander, thinking to oblige me, offered me a fowling-piece, and proposed a party of shooting: I returned him thanks for his civility; but assured him, that it was a diversion I had never taken delight in; but that, if it would do him any sort of pleasure, I was ready to accompany him. "No, no, said old Grapina, interrupting me, it will only be disagreeable to you: for my part, I cannot conceive what pleasure people can take in scouring over hedges and ditches after a poor innocent hare; or standing, planted like a statue, for an hour or two, to shoot a parcel of birds, that a little money will bring you ready for the spit."
"There is no disputing of tastes, Seignor Don Matthew said I, we have instances of different ones every day; and though you and I are not fond of the chace, yet we should not condemn those who are. We all know it is a royal diversion, and contributes greatly to preserve the body in health and vigour. The princes and nobles of the land follow it, and
almost every person of condition	." "Ay, said Grapina, that is true; it is for that
reason that I am not so much against my son's following it. Well, go your ways, Don Alexander, continued her; and , d'ye hear, use your best endeavours to get us something nice for Seignor Ranucio's supper to-night: in the mean time, he and I will go and take a mouthful of fresh air in my gardens, to get us an appetite."
In saying this, he opened a large glass-door, through which we entered into a magnificent parterre, laid out in the most elegant manner, and adorned with noble marble statues. As we went along, the old gentleman took upon him to explain to me the story of each of them, which gave me as much pleasure, as the sight of them, though they were certainly exquisitely fine. "You see that man there, said he, with his two sons, round which these monstrous serpents are twining; that is Laocoon, who came to the assistance of his two children, who were seized upon these cursed creatures one day as they were fishing for eels. Not contented with devouring the poor little innocents, they fell next upon the father, and made an end of him too; and yet all the crime he was guilty of, as far as I can learn from history, was his having struck his spur a little too deep into the Trojan horse."
"Observe that other figure; that is Pegasus, who would not suffer Alexander the Great to mount him. Mark! What a Main! What an Head! what a Chest! He wants nothing but Speech to be alive."
"This statue you see here, is Milo, the Crotonian; for whom Cicero, that famous Roman lawyer, made such a fine harangue: one would imagine, that the statuary meant to represent the force and strength of that famous orator's eloquence, by the robust and nervous make of this body. Examine these Muscles! Here are Veins! Here are Sinews! Allow with me, that this is a Master-piece of Sculpture!"
I stood in need of all my gravity, to forbear laughing in his face, as he went on with his absurd explanations; and had he continued much longer, I certainly should have done it: but, happily for me, he took me to see a labyrinth he had, in which there was a number of alcoves, every one more beautiful than another: we afterwards went to walk on a terras, near seventy feet long, from whence there was one of the finest prospects that can imagined.
After having feasted me with all the curiosities without doors, he carried me back to the house, where he shewed me thro? the apartments, which were all of them most elegantly furnished: but nothing struck me so much as his library; it was a room of an immense length, and full of books, from one end to the other. He told me it contained no less than fifty-six thousand volumes. Is it possible, thought I to myself, that the laity should set such an example to our clergy? What a disgrace is it to them, to see a man, who never had the least taste for literature, possessed of such a fine collection, while in some of their houses, have not half a dozen books in them? Ah! my dear uncle, I wish you had the fourth part of these! But, indeed, what could you do with them, considering your taste?
I was occupied with these reflections, when Grapina asked me, my opinion of his library? "It is a very magnificent one, Seignor, said I; but I am a little surprized at your bringing such a treasure into so small a village as this, when it might be of such use in the capital? There, it would gain you the friendship and conversation of all men of learning, who would be charmed with an opportunity of having recourse to such a magazine of letters." "Well; and do you know, Seignor Ranucio, replied he, that it was this very reason which induced me to bring it hither: I was continually besieged by these gentlemen at Lisbon. Night and day they were handling my books, which spoiled them, and made me almost mad; for, do you see, I am none of your ignorant puppies, that judge of a book by the age and dirty appearance of it: no, no, I value a book for the beauty of the binding; and, when that is gone, the book is nothing to me, I throw it aside as useless; and I am so nice on this head, that I hardly dare venture to read one of them myself, for fear of damaging it. As for your learned gentlemen, they may find enough for their purpose, without me. There is the prince's library, which is open for them on certain days; and, besides that, there are several convents, which have very curious libraries, where they have liberty to go and study every day."
"That is true, Seignor Grapina, said I; but, do you know what it is to go among monks to study? If you was informed, as I have been by a friend of mine, of the ill reception they give to people of worth and learning on such occasions: if you could see the insolent airs they
give themselves, and the mean compliances they expect from those whom they think stand in need of them, you would allow, that an author might, with much more ease, make a work entirely from his own brain, than to be indebted to them for the use of their libraries. One would imagine, that they carried the contempt they themselves have for all kind of learning to all who have any taste for it. Proud of being in possession of such a treasure, of which they know not the value, they deprive those who do from enjoying it, nay, frequently refuse them the sight of it."
"As to myself, replied the financier, I am above such meannesses; for I take a pleasure in shewing mine to all the world. Observe, here are of all sorts and sizes, as one may say, and of all colours and shapes too. Indeed, I never read in them myself; but my booksellers, assured me, they were all chosen books, and of the very best editions." After what he had said to me a little while before, I was very cautious how I meddled with any of his books.
But, seeing me look at them very attentively, he took down a book from one part of the library, and, holding it out to me, "Here, Seignor Fanucio, cried he, if you talk of books, here is a book! why, I would not give the collection that this book belongs to, for all the rest of my library put together: this, Sir, is part of a compleat collection of all the songs that have been made since the first building of the bridge that leads to the king's palace; you may judge from thence of its antiquity: but, what makes this collection still more valuable to me, is, that many of them were composed by a person of fashion, a relation of mine, with whom I used to scribble a little in this kind of poetry now and then." "What, said I, affecting a surprise, Are you a poet, Seignor Grapina?" "Ay, and a musician too, Sir, replied he. Indeed, neither my music, nor my poetry, are the most delicate in the world; but they will do well enough, to shew a man's breeding in company. You must know I can whistle melodiously: there are few that can equal me in this accomplishment; and, when I set up my pipe, you would think you heard a nightingale at your ear. You shall be witness of it this instant: I assure you, I have been admired by numbers of people, ay, and of taste too." Upon this he began to whistle some trifling tune with a noise that went thro? my ears; but I was obliged to bear with him out of complaisance, and even affect to praise this execrable discord. As soon as he had given over, I was for making towards the door, lest he should take it in his head to begin again.
I was got pretty near to it, when he called me back, and told me, That he had some things to shew me, of infinitely greater consequence than all the libraries in the world, and what he was well persuaded would afford me the greatest pleasure.
In saying this, he led me up to a vast cabinet, the folding-doors of which he immediately threw open: It was filled, from the bottom to about the middle, with a prodigious number of little drawers; the rest of it was taken up with shelves, which rose one above another like a flight of steps, and on these were an infinity of large phials, full of spirits of wine. "In this place, Seignor Ranucio, said the old Financier, in this place are all the treasures of nature, all the riches of the earth and sea; in a word, every thing that is valuable, or curious in the world; as you will acknowledge, when I have shewed you its contents."
After this pompous preamble, he opened two drawers, in which I expected to see
some of the most glorious productions of nature; but, to my great disappointment, it contained nothing but a few oyster and muscle-shells, with here and there a large scallop or two, or a periwinkle of a remarkable size, which had never the least pretensions to beauty or rarity, but in the opinion of old Grapina. These were spread with great care and order upon a bed of fine cotton; the whiteness of which entirely eclipsed the beauties that the Financier was so fond of.
As I was very little taken with these supposed rarities, Grapina observed my indifference, and said, "You seem not to like this drawer, young gentleman; and yet, let me tell you, it is a very fine collection: I am sure, it cost me a very fine sum of money: but have a
little patience, and I will shew you such things, such things! that	There! Continued
he, opening five or six drawers at once, "Tell me, if you ever, in your life-time, saw any thing to compare with these? here are beauties! only examine these Turbines; these Bivalves; these Nautilli; these Tiaras; these Helmets; these Royal Mantles: these Shuttes; these Concas
Vineris; these Towers of Babel; these	What say you now? Seignor Ranucio; what
say you now! Is not this fine! Is not this magnificent! Can any thing exceed it? Why, this collection alone might purchase half the world; and, ?faith, they cost me a fine penny, and yet I had them a bargain too."
Seeing the old man in such raptures, the fear of mortifying him too sensibly, prevented me from telling him what I really thought of all these trifles, which are fit for nothing but to amuse children withal. "Why, says he, all on fire, you don't say a word! What? do you not think this beautiful? Are you not pleased yet? Well, well; I have that will do for you, take my word on't. Here, Sir; pray, draw near: here are the master-pieces of nature's production. Here you will see my Tygers, my Panthers, my Dolphins, my Snipes,
my swallows, my	" "What? then you have a menagerie, Seignor Grapina! said I,
interrupting him." "Upon my honour, a pretty thought that, replied he; a very pretty thought that! And to the purpose; a menagerie! Well, I am resolved to remember that! and, from this day forward, this set of drawers shall be called THE MENAGERIE." In saying this, he opened two new ones, and shewed them me full of different shells, which bores as much resemblance to the things whose names they went by, as a chariot does to a wind-mill. He would have proceeded to shew me all the rest; but I began to grow heartily tired of this amusement, and to stop him in his career: I asked him, what kind of animal that was, which I saw preserved in spirits in a great glass upon one of the shelves? "Why that, Sir, said Grapina, is the serpent Python, which was slain by the Chimćra. In that other bottle, which you see by the side of it, are the two serpents, which Bellerophon strangled, while an infant in his creadle." He was proceeding to shew me the other things contained in the rest of the glasses which, he assured me, were the greatest rarities in the world; but, having had enough of the others, I began to look about for something else, and was greatly struck with a large bone, which appeared to me near thirty feet long; I asked him, which animal it belonged to? "That, said he, is one of the leg-bones of the famous Gargantua. That other small one, which you see by the side of it, is a tooth of the cyclops Polyphemus, when he was very young; it is not above three feet five inches and four lines in length. These other curiosities you see disposed about, are of various kinds: There is the foretop of Mahomet's hair, for which I gave a Jew three hundred and seventy-eight ducats; a part of the tail of a comet; a feather of Leda's swan, which was so
admired for its beauty 	 observe how surprisingly white it is! Then here is one of
Midas? ears; a stone from Pharaoh's pyramid; one of the horns of the goat Amalthea; a piece of the skin of the Minotaur; a wing of Medea's dragon; one of the strings of Orpheus? harp; and a tooth of the dog Cerberus: all of them very great curiosities, and truly originals; for there is nothing of the kind to be met with any where else in the known world." The good man had no occasion to swear to the truth of this last article; I was ready enough to believe in on his bare word; and thought his simplicity as diverting, as the gravity with which the monks of St. Denis display their holy trumpery to the credulous.
Having now sufficiently satisfied my curiosity, as he thought, the Financier was just going to shut his cabinet, when re-collecting himself, on a sudden, "what a dolt am I, cry'd he, striking his head, I was going away without shewing you the greatest treasure that is, perhaps, this day under the sun. Ah, my poor butterflies: I should have had you finely upon my back if I had suffered seignor Ranucio to depart without seeing you. Upon this he drew out two drawers, which, for the sake of a better light he brought to a table that stood under one of the windows. I must acknowledge that I never in my life beheld a more glorious sight. The wings of the butterflies, which were disposed in an artful manner, formed a picture, whose vivid colours, worthy the almighty pencil, were not to be imitated by any mortal
painter. But remark the mutability of human happiness and possessions, while Grapina and I were feasting our eyes on these beauties, a sudden gust of wind blew upen the casement, and in an instant dissipated this beauteous spectacle. "O heavens! cry'd the Financier, in all the agonies of despair, I am ruined! I am undone! There is the most solid of all my possessions entirely lost in air, O cursed mischance! Oh, wretched Grapina! Ah, my dearest Ranucio, I am dead! I am bury'd! I am damn'd!"
I had much ado to forbear laughing in his face at these ridiculous and childish exclamations, but I thought that good breeding obliged me to do something towards assisting a man whose misfortunes had happened thro? his great complaisance to me. Accordingly I immediately shut the window, and then we both ran about like children after the dispersed wings of the butterflies, which the wind had blown about the room. After great pains and labour we recovered some few, but those were greatly damaged in passing thro? our hands. Grapina appeared overwhelmed with grief. I did all in my power to comfort him, by telling him that the rest would certainly be found by removing some of the books. This restored him a little to his reason and he grew more pacified. To complete his cure, I proposed to him to go into the press-yard and see them make wine, which he agreed to with great complaisance.
 VIII.
Monkish toll on the vintage. The great aversion of the monks to labour.
An adventure that happened to one of them in the pressing-house.
THE Financier now set out with me to the press-yard, where we found the country people making as merry as possible. The first object that struck me on my entrance was about a dozen monks in their different habits, each seated on a tun. Surprised at so extraordinary an appearance, I asked my conductor what they might be doing there: "What are they doing, said Grapina in a surprise, why sure you cannot be ignorant of that? Why these are the cellar-ferrets of all the convents here-abouts, whom the superiors have sent to collect their dues of the vintage. The tuns you see them seated on are what belong to their respective convents, and not one of them will stir till his vessel is brimful." "Good heaven's, cry'd I briskly, are not these poor people already sufficiently oppressed with taxes, but they must be obliged to undergo this new one, his holy exaction?" "Why I find, said Grapina, that you are not very fond of these reverend gentlemen, one would imagine that they had plaid you some scurvey trick." "Quite the contrary, I assure you, replied I, for they have always contributed greatly to my diversion, as well by the oddity of their dress and their rules, as by some very comical scenes with which they have furnished me." "If so, replied the Financier, you are not much beside the mark now, for this is the time that they commit more than ordinary extravagancies."
The noise made by the country people hindred the good fathers from hearing the panegyric we were making on them. When the diversions were ended, every one returned to work, and these holy collectors bestirred themselves very briskly, not suffering the least drop of their dues to escape them. One of the country fellows seeing them so busy in taking their shares, which was not the worst nor the least part of the wine, desired one of them to help him turn the wheel; "God have mercy upon us friend, said one of the monks, do you know what you are asking of us. No, no, we shall take care how we do any thing of that kind, I assure you. You do not know, I suppose, that our founder has strictly forbidden us to work under pain of incurring mortal sin." "If that's the case, said I interrupting him, he ought at the same time to have ordered all your mouths to be sown up, for "he that will not work shall not eat," but do not, throw the blame upon your founders, who commanded directly the contrary; rather own that it is your own indigent and lazy dispositions that make you thus
saunter up and down every town and village to eat up the subsistance of the poor, instead of working as the rest of mankind do."
This unexpected sally of mine disconcerted them a good deal, which Grapina observed, and in order to divert the conversation, set his people a dancing again. The fellows desired nothing better, and began to shake their heels with great alacrity: their mirth communicated itself to the monks, who would very gladly have joined in the diversion, had they not been apprehensive of a second lecture. In fact I was almost angry with myself for what I had done, for there were three or four of these grey-beards that would have been more diverting figures cutting cross capers. However, I was pretty well recompensed by a sudden sally of one of their companions, who starting up hastily, threw off his cloak, and getting into one of the mashing-tubs, began to harrangue us on the subject of the vintage. It was a piece of the burlesque kind, but appeared to me to have infinitely too much wit and learning in the composition to come from himself.
The monks seated on their tuns and the vintagers on the ground, listened with profound attention to his harangue, as did Grapina and myself, when a sudden accident happened which obliged our orator to quit his pulpit, and in an instant dispersed the whole congregation. I have already observed that he threw off his cloak at his first mounting the rostrum, in order, I suppose, to display his action to more advantage. While he was in the heat of his discourse, it chanced that an hungry mastiff passing that way came into the place where we were assembled; the creature finding no one take notice of him, as our attention was otherwise employed; made up to the monk's cloak that lay on the ground, probably allured by the effluvia that proceeded from it; and after giving it two or three hearty shakes, fell to work with his mouth and feet so effectually, that he opened one of the pockets that hung to it, and out came the end of a leg of mutton. The fear of being disturbed, made him use all his endeavours to disengage it if possible altogether, but not being able to compass his ends there, he thought he should succeed better and eat it more at his ease without doors; accordingly he carries off the monk's cloak into the yard.
The whole congregation burst out into a laugh at seeing the priestly robe pass by them. The orator more attentive to his supper than the subject he was upon, perceiving that no one offered to go after his cloak, jump'd himself out of the mash-tub and ran after the sacriligious beast who had made thus free with the church habiliments, and by this time had nearly made himself master of the contents. A battle seemed now to be the unavoidable consequence: every one was eager to see how it would be managed, and in favour of which of the two combatants victory would declare. Accordingly the all ran out into the yard, where they found the monk with one end of the cloak in his hand, disputing the possession with the mastiff, who, on his side, tugged as heartily at the other to maintain his hold. The dispute was very obstinate, and victory remained for a long time doubtful. The spectators, as is usual on such occasions, took different sides, but as yet fortune seemed to incline to neither party; but made use of the efforts of each to compromise the matter; in a word, the old cloak being torn into two pieces left the victory undecided. The mastiff, however, had this advantage over his adversary, that when the holy rag rent asunder, he saw him fall backwards to the ground. I immediately ran to raise the good father, and enquired whether he was hurt. "My greatest hurt, says he, is the loss of my supper; but I trust that providence will make it up o me."
In saying this he rose from the ground, and rejoined the spectators, who were still diverting themselves with his adventure. He was the first to join in the laugh, but as soon as he saw the broken pieces of chaplets and agnus dei's, with which the cursed cur had strewed the way, and which the spectators had trampled into a thousand pieces with their feet; lifting his eyes up to heaven, "Blessed virgin, cry'd he, what do I see! What profanation is this! Holy rosaries and sacred relicks trampled under feet!"
"Indeed, said I, this is a sacrilege that deserves."	Don Alexander, who joined
us in that instant, prevented me from saying any more: after a few moments discourse together we all three returned to the house, where supper was waiting for us.
If the entertainment was elegant, the conversation was full as insipid. Donna Cameria, who had been silent all the afternoon on account of the cares, now gave her tongue full loose, and seemed resolved to have every word to herself. She would scarcely allow us time to drink to each other, but was incessantly putting in one foolish question upon the back of another, and those of the most ridiculous and absurd kind. In short her tongue was the perpetual motion. I flattered myself with the hopes that the cloth being taken away, she would give us some respite, and in that view begged leave to retire as soon as supper was over, but the good lady immediately stopt me by saying, very frankly, that she never invited any one to supper without giving them a bed. I excused myself strongly upon my uncle's being ill, and in want of my attendance, but all my reasons were overruled, and a messenger was dispatched away to the Licentiate's, to let him know that he was not to expect me that night. Having thus gotten me within her power she fell upon me without mercy, and over-whelmed me with an inundation of questions about my family. As, whether my father was rich, if he was in years, how many children my mother had had, how old she was when she married, if she was still handsome, if she was fond of play, and whether she saw much genteel company.
She was no longer in asking these questions, than I have been in enumerating them; so I will leave the reader to judge whether it was possible for me to put in an answer. Indeed I believe she would have been sorry that I had, for I no sooner offered to open my mouth, than she stopt it by some silly question. I therefore resolved to let the "larum run, which it did with a surprising rapidity. Certainly she was the most of a woman in that respect of any one in the world. At length, however, she began to grow weary of having all the talk to herself, and called upon me to relieve her; upon which I remonstrated to her, that as the night was so far advanced, if we continued our conversation much longer, it might have a bad effect upon her looks the next day. This little compliment procured me my release, she answered, that she was more in apprehension upon my account, and gave me leave to withdraw, which I accordingly did, not staying to be bid twice.
 III.
A visit from the Patriarch of Lisbon. His magnificent train.
A description of that prelate.
HOW disagreable soever I had passed the preceding evening at Grapina's house from the stunning clack of his wife, I was amply recompensed for it the next day, by a sight that I should have missed had I returned home to my uncle's. This was the entry of the patriarch of Lisbon, who was on his visitation, and and stopt at our castle as the only place that appeared fit to lodge him. The ringing of the bells, and the acclamations of the people, who had all run to arms to give him the most honourable reception, and the still greater noise made by his own train, wakened me suddenly out of my sleep. This was the first time he had been seen in the town for above fifteen years that he had been archbishop and patriarch, and indeed it was the very first visitation he had ever made in his diocess.
By the magnificence of his train you would rather have taken him for the ambassador of some foreign potentate, who had a mind to captivate the minds of the people by all the luxury of pomp and shew, than a pastor come to visit his flock. Twelve mules loaded with his plate preceded four large covered wagons, in which were his officers of the mouth, with all the provisions and utensils for his kitchen. After them came twenty led horses, and six
coaches. In th two first of these were the lay officers of his grace's household, and in the two others his archdeacons and chaplains, and in the fifth a bishop suffragan, who acted as his grace's squire; the sixth which was drawn by eight noble Barbary horses, was filled by the patriarch in person, escorted by two valets at each door, two running footmen before, and eight lusty tall footmen behind. This pompous retinue was closed by a crowd of poor people who had followed his grace from Silveyra, where he lay the night before; to whom, in the abundance of his generosity and charity, he had ordered one crusade* to be distributed amongst them all.
Such a numerous retinue stopping at his house, would have frightened any man more in his sense than D. Grapina. But he on the contrary, who had never received such an honor in his life, was ready to run mad with joy when he saw them enter the court-yard. As for his wife, I thought she would have gone quite beside herself. As soon as she saw him coming at a distance you might have heard her running about the house like a distracted woman, calling out as loud as she could bawl, Husband! husband! here's the patriarch! The patriarch is coming to our house! now who will dare take upon them to dispute our rank: But unfortunately for her, poor woman, she did not long keep up to the dignity of this supposed rank, for the moment the prelate had set his foot out of the coach door, she ran and threw herself at his feet, to ask his blessing, which she received among all the rabble that had attended his coach, and who had flung themselves prostrate on the ground for the same intent.
Notwithstanding the prepossession I had always had in favour of the dignified clergy, I could scarce keep my countenance at the sight of the patriarch's figure, which I had never seen the like of in my whole life. He was a perfect little AEsop, with this only difference, that the one was a poor slave, and this the younger brother of the illustrious house of Alcazone. I could not help admiring as he passed me, the prudent management of nature, who sometimes takes delight in humbling by the deformity of body, those men whose illustrious births might otherwise make them too proud. Tho? she had here exerted this wise precaution in its full extent, yet, from what I could observe, she had failed in her design. For this little limb of the church, had all that pride and self-sufficiency in his carriage which, tho? pardonable, perhaps, from the consideration of his birth, appeared ridiculous in one of his profession and figure. He made his entrance into the house preceded by all his officers, ecclesiastic and secular, most of them jolly well-looking men, which only served to make his patriarchical littleness more conspicuous.
The servants of the house, at the head of whom stood Grapina himself, received his grace's benediction as he passed by them, of which I had my share as well as the others, happening to be upon the stair-case just as he came up. Grapina seeing me there, begged me to assist him in doing the honors of the house, till some gentlemen he had sent to in the neighbourhood to keep the prelate company, could have time to arrive. I excused myself as well as I could, by alledging, that he was certainly himself the most proper and capable person to do that office in his own house; adding, that I had not been used to the company of patriarchs, I might perhaps be at a loss in the decorum due to ecclesiastical dignity, which would subject me to commit errors, the blame of which would fall upon himself; but he would not listen to my excuses.
*A crusade is nearly equal to our English crown piece.
Accordingly we made our entry together into the room where the prelate was, whom we found very busy at a glass adjusting the curles of his wig, which had been somewhat disordered by the motion of his carriage. Grapina made him a compliment on his safe arrival, and returned him thanks for the honor he did him in making choice of his house to alight at. "Why yes, reply'd the prelate, with an air of indifference, I did so because I was told that it was the only house in the place fit to receive a person of my condition, and that you know pretty well how to receive company." "Your grace has not been deceived, reply'd I, D. Grapina is a person of so generous a disposition that it may be said, his house belongs less to himself than to those friends who do him the pleasure of coming to it."
The Financier returned my civility by a low bow: but I could observe that the prince of the church was not well pleased with my freedom, in mingling in the conversation. He surveyed me with an air of haughtiness and contempt, which I answered by a resolute and collected countenance, that seemed to surprise him.
In the mean while D. Antonio, my uncle, after having taken care of part of the equipage at his house, made it his first business to pay his duty to the patriarch; accordingly he came to the house with all speed, and was announced by the name of the Licentiate d'aletes. The prelate, not being acquainted with him, asked one of his grand vicars if this Licentiate was a gentleman. To which the other reply'd, "that he was not very much acquainted with the person, but that our family had been in possession of some of the most considerable employments in the long robe, and that his grace's predecessor had conferred this living upon him in return for a piece of service he had done him in a law-suit he had had with his chapter." "Oh! very well, reply'd the holy man, with an air of contempt, you know I never stoop to converse with curates, unless they are men of family, so this is your business. Go, receive him, and then visit his church; after that is over, I would have you go to those impertinent nuns, and give them a severe reprimand from me, tell them, d'ye hear, that as they have given me the trouble of coming all this way, if they make me come to their convent they must expect to pay me for my journey."
I could hold out no longer against so much pride and insolence. The contempt the prelate had expressed for all priests, and the affront he had offered to our family in particular, in the person of my uncle, stung me to the quick: and looking steadfastly at him, "This same Licentiate, said I, my lord, whom your grace is pleased to treat with such contempt, is nevertheless a pastor of the church of Christg, as well as your lordship." The patriarch seemed as much shocked at this parallel as I had been at his haughtiness; so true is it that an humble prelate is rarely to be found.
I should, perhaps, have suffered some insult from him myself, had it not been for the arrival of half a dozen gentlemen, as they called themselves, whom Grapina had gathered together from the village. They were great over-grown loobies that you would have taken for day labourers, but for their long swords that trailed after them upon the ground, and were every minute ready to trip up their heels, when they made their congees to the patriarch. His prelateship very graciously uncovered himself when they entered, and having made them sit down, began to enter into a familiar conversation with them. I laid hold on this opportunity to leave the room, and go to my uncle's, whom I imagined must have a great deal of business upon his hands, by this unexpected visit.
 IV.
The motive of the patriarch's visitation. His behaviour to the nuns.
A description of the Portugueze clergy.
I Supposed at my return to my uncle's, to have found the grand-vicar still with him. But he had finished his visit long before, at which I could not help expressing some surprise. Why, what country do you come from? said the honest Licentiate; do you think, that we live in those times, when a poor curate was obliged to undergo long-winded lectures, tedious examinations and hard reprimands, that frequently ended in sending for three or four months to the seminary? No, no, thank heaven, our masters have abolished all these stupid customs, and apply themselves now-a-days to things of a more serious nature. More attentive to the tributes of faith, than the regularity of manners among their flock, for which they trust to us, they employ themselves wholly in suppressing all innovations in the church; and this, as I have lately learnt from the grand-vicar, is the chief motive of our patriarch's visitation at this time. He was in hopes to have put a stop to these disorders by means of a new catechism, which he had published instead of that used by his predecessors, but this only served to increase the evil, and the work itself having had the misfortune to be disapproved by the holy inquisition, the innovator only laughed at it.
"What, said I, interrupting him, did the patriarch ridicule himself?" "Who is talking about the patriarch, replied my uncle; I am speaking of a set of schismatics that we hardly know any thing about as yet, and therefore call by the name of the Invisibles, but they are a dangerous set. I wish you would explain yourself, said I; for my part, I think there can be no people so dangerous to the church, as those who take upon them thus to change its catechisms, which contain the first elements of our religion. Lord! how dull of apprehension you are, continued Don Antonio. It is of these very heretics, I tell you once again, and not of the patriarch, that I am talking. He, worthy man, is an excellent prelate, and a sound catholic; but all his diocesans do not take after him; and we have a parcel of little rebellious sluts of nuns here, that give him a great deal of trouble, they are infected with this invisible heresy, and have rejected him and his catechism together, and treated him no better than an innovator. Well, and what has been the consequence of this think you? Why, he has excommunicated them all, and sent the most refractory into banishment, and is resolved to demolish the whole convent, if they any longer refuse to receive his catechism. ----You may laugh if you please, but let me tell you, this affair grows very serious, since he has been at the trouble of coming hither in person; they have been hitherto deaf to all remonstrances and wholesome discipline, let us now see how they will hold out against his grace himself, let us see if they will laugh at him as they have done at his substitutes."
If they should, replied I, I fancy they will not be alone, for I cannot help thinking that it is very absurd in our prelates to expose themselves to the scorn of every person of understanding, for making such a stir about trifles. Do not these poor girls suffer enough already from their perpetual imprisonment and the severity of their vows, without being tormented with such stuff as this?"
"Why then, replied Don Antonio, with some warmth, do they not do as they are ordered? Is it for an archbishop and a patriarch to give way?" "Yes, doubtless, answered I, if he is in the wrong, cannot he leave the poor girls to their needles and their beads, and in the belief they have always been in? Is he afraid they will stir up heresies? It would, be
something very unaccountable if they did	."
Here our conversation was interrupted by a servant of the patriach's, who presented my uncle a paper from his master, which he had no sooner read, than the honest man began to change his tone. "Oh, the extortioner, cry'd he, beside himself with rage, does he know what
he is doing, tax me at an hundred ducats! Why it is more than the whole income of my living! Does he not squeeze us enough already with his tenths? Am I not devoured enough with his mules and his horses, but he must come himself to complete my ruin? An hundred ducats! S'death, he is worse than Antichrist, he is a man-eater, to ask an hundred ducats of a poor country curate!"
I was going to ask him the cause of all this wrath, when giving me the paper, "here read this, said he, and tell me if there was ever such a Jew, such an Arab in the world as this man. An hundred ducats for my share towards defraying his expences. Where is conscience! Where is religion!" "Why among the prelates, reply'd I, at least you told me so just now."
"Yes it is a very pretty religion, indeed, replied he, these gentlemen profess, that consists only in satisfying their luxury, vanity and ambition, at the expence of others!" "Nay, now my dear uncle, said I, you are carried away by your passion, or you would never speak
thus of those worthy men, those saints, who	" "Hold your tongue, nephew, said he, I
say no more than the truth, nor all that, as you would say, if you knew as much as I do. Do they not treat us like their slaves, they tax us, they eat us up, and afterwards they cry we do not provide enough for the poor. Why we must have mountains of gold to supply their extravagance, and those would hardly suffice."
Tho? anger had a great share in what my uncle had been saying, yet I could not help thinking that there was some truth in his remarks, from what little I already knew of the world. I therefore pretended at first to join with him in his resentment against the prelate, in order to divert myself a little with him, but afterwards remonstrated to him that however exorbitant the demand might appear, yet it was in fact but a very moderate sum. He seemed surprized at this, "What, an hundred ducats, nephew, cry'd he, an hundred ducats a moderate sum!" "Doubtless, reply'd I, and thus I will prove it to you: Every bishop, you know, has not only a right, but is obliged by his duty, to make the visitation of his diocess yearly, and many on that account demand an annual sum from you to defray their charges, now there are above fifteen years that this man has not troubled you once, therefore reckon up what it would have cost you had he paid you a visit yearly, and you will find you have got a good bargain." "A very pretty way of reasoning indeed! replied Don Antonio, pray are we obliged to pay people for what they do not do?" "That is but too customary in the church my dear uncle, said I, therefore take my word for it, instead of complaining of the patriarch, you may think yourself very happy that you have to deal with so quiet a man. Consider, you have been your own master for upwards of fifteen years, you have had your full swing of pleasure, you have regaled yourself and your friends, in short, you have done whatever you thought fit, without this good patriarch having once troubled his head about you, and yet you think much of giving a little money for so many years of indulgence: come, come, I know some of your brethren who would gladly give four times the sum to enjoy your liberty, for there are several bishops, who, in order to put a stop to the excesses of the clergy, have laid a duty upon every gallon of wine used in their houses, I shall only mention the bishop of Leira for one." "Oh! said my uncle, he's a worthy subject to be sure, and this piece of reformation as well becomes him, I suppose it is one of his tricks to get money. However it is not quite so bad as many others he has put in practice upon those concerned with him, witness his late treatment of Don Lopez de Silva. I must tell you that story, because it is a very extraordinary one in its kind, and may serve to shew you that you must not always judge of the honesty of these gentry by their outside of devotion and religion."
 V.
The story of Don Lopez de Silva.
DON Lopez de Silva having lost his parents very young, fell into the hands of a guardian, who, according to the custom of all countries, found means to embezzle the greatest part of what had been left him: he might probably have comforted himself for this loss, had care been taken to give him an education suitable to his birth, and that might have made him amends for the want of fortune; but by the avarice of his guardian he was deprived of this likewise; so that at his entrance into the world he found himself destitute both of wealth and means. In this unhappy situation there remained but two ways for him to chuse, the army or the church. He made choice of the latter, as the most suitable to his circumstances, and in order to qualify himself for it, put himself under a doctor of Coimbra, named Don Alvar, who finding him a young person of an apt disposition, taught him as much Latin as was necessary to understand his Breviary, after which got him ordained, and very charitably presented him with a purse of fifty ducats to help support him till he could procure him some little living.
Don Lopez, instead of waiting with patience for preferment, of which he could hardly have missed; as his patron was an intimate friend of the bishop of Coimbra's, resolved to owe his good fortune wholly to himself, and, quitting his benefactor, made the best of his way for Leira. He had been told that the bishop of that city had a great number of livings in his gift, and was not very scrupleous in the persons he nominated, for the first that apply'd might have the presentation for a small gratuity. You must understand that the good bishop did not do this out of a principle of avarice, for he appropriated all the money he got by this holy traffic to the support of a pretty wench called Donna Valeria, whom his reverence honoured with his affections.
Our young priest, not thinking himself to have sufficient merit to be provided for so speedily by the bishop of Coimbra, imagined he should find a sufficient recommendation in his purse to him of Leira. Full of these hopes he arrived in that city, but missing of his lordship, who was then at Lisbon, having been sent for up to court, that they might have a closer eye upon his conduct. Don Lopez having applied to one of his secretaries, who served him at the same time in quality of broker, was told, that his lordship was attending the court upon some affairs relating to his diocess, and that as his business was of such a nature as to require speaking with him, it would be his best way to follow him thither, assuring him at the same time that he would have no reason to repent of his journey. He accordingly set out with a letter of recommendation to the bishop, or more properly speaking, a letter of instruction to his lordship, how to make the most of what fortune had thrown in his way.
As soon as Don Lopez got to Lisbon, he immediately went to pay his respects to the prelate, whom he found in holy retirement among the brothers of the Propagation: Never was appearance more deceitful than his, his downcast eyes, his humble deportment, his edifying discourse, and his whole behaviour in general, might have made him be taken for one of the best men that had for a long time adorned the ministry. At least such was the idea that Don Lopez formed of him, when he presented him with the letter he brought from his secretary.
When the prelate had read it he embraced Don Lopez, and began to return thanks to heaven for having sent him a person so worthy to fill a place in his church. "Son, said he, it was certainly the hand of providence that conducted you hither, you could not have come in a better time, for I have just received a letter, informing me, that one of the best livings I have in my gift is lately vacant. The last incumbent was a pious and worthy man, and I think I cannot give him a better successor than yourself; may you live long to enjoy it, and acquit
yourself as uprightly in it as he has done. You have nothing to do but find out my secretary, and tell him from me to fill up the necessary form in your name. You will excuse me from leaving you at present, I hear the Rosary bell ring, and I must go to prayers with our reverend
fathers	."
Don Lopez enchanted with the affable behaviour and deceitful kindness of the hypocritical bishop did not know what to think of the stories that had been told him to his disadvantage, and was ready to impute it all to envy and calumny. So good a man, said he to himself, cannot escape the malice of evil tongues! Ah, what a villainous world is this! These reflections occupy'd him till he got to the secretary's, whom the bishop had taken care to prepare by a note; and having acquainted him with what the bishop had done for him, this faithful servant immediately set about making out the forms, which he soon dispatched. Our young curate was no less charmed with the disinterested manner of behaviour in the secretary, than he had been with that of his master, and began to congratulate himself on the success of his journey; the business being, as he thought, entirely done, but when they came to sign and seal, the secretary began a very pathetic discourse upon charity, magnifying the necessities of the diocess, and the great number of poor it had to maintain, which had obliged the good prelate himself, he said, to retire into a monastery, in order to save wherewithal to support them; he then launched out into a pompous panegyric on the bishop's virtues, and his love for the poor, which was so great, he said, that it had put him upon inventing a scheme for supplying their wants, by making those who were presented to livings contribute towards a charitable fund out of the income of their livings. And therefore requested him to be so good to count out a thousand ducats while he carried the grants to be sealed.
Don Lopez, who till then had been greatly edified by his discourse, began to exclaim violently against so exorbitant an imposition. "Bless me! said the secretary, mighty calmly, what do you complain of? Why it is not more than the amount of the two first years income, do you think that too much for the certainty of so considerable a provision for life; where will you find such another bargain? Here you are made easy for the remainder of your days, and you hesitate at giving a little towards the support of the poor; perhaps not the thirtieth part of your income, for thank heaven you seem likely to enjoy your living for half a century at least."
"I never supposed, replied Don Lopez, to have had this grant for nothing, I was sufficiently informed of that before hand, but is it reasonable that his lordship, in order to provide for the poor, should reduce me to a state of poverty myself, as he seems willing to do by requiring a thousand ducats of me; a thousand ducats! I neither have such a sum, nor ever
had; and	"Why then prythee friend, said the secretary, interrupting him hastily, why
did you come here in search of livings? Did you not know that they are given only to the rich, as being the best able to pay for them. If this is the case I am afraid you will find yourself supplanted by a young court abbot, with whom I laid a wager the other day of three thousand ducats, that he would have a living before he was three months older, and I am certain that so great is the love our good bishop bears the poor, that was he to hear of this wager, he would instantly withdraw his grant and confer it on that man, but I scorn such mean artificies and leave them to be practised by a king's confessor or the valet de chambre of a prime minister."
This speech of the secretary's had the desired effect on Don Lopez. The fear of seeing himself supplanted in so considerable a living, of which he had thought himself absolutely sure, made him ready to comply with ever thing. But one circumstance embarrassed him greatly, which was, his not being master of above one half of the sum, and that he was not sure whither the secretary would wait a while for the rest. However he made his case known to him, but the honest go-between would not hearken to any thing under the
full sum, till he offered him notes on some of the most considerable bankers in Lisbon, which he at length accepted and made him out his grant.
Our new incumbent had now nothing more at heart than to acquaint his benefactor Don Alvar of his lucky promotion, and accordingly wrote him a letter of thanks for all his care and friendship, and the kind endeavours he had used to procure him advancement, desiring him to give himself no farther trouble on this latter head, as it had pleased providence to provide for him already in an handsome manner. The good doctor upon the receipt of this letter, waited on the bishop of Coimbra to return him thanks for the kind promises he had made him, in behalf of Don Lopez, whom he had recommended to him. "I am very glad, replied the bishop, to hear such good news, certainly the bishop of Leira must be greatly changed, to give away livings for nothing, since it has been his constant practice for above these fifteen years to dispose of them only to the best bidder." "It may be so, my lord, replied Don Alvar, all that I know about the matter is, that the priory he has just bestowed on Don Lopez, belongs to the abbey of St. Victor, of which his lordship is abbot."
"Nay, if that is the case, replied the bishop, I am afraid poor Don Lopez will stand in need of my protection yet, for you must know that the court has nominated the bishop of Leira to that abbey (the revenues of which are under sequestration) only to secure a payment for his creditors, and farthermore has desired the pope not to grant him any bulls, to punish him for the simonies he has already been guilty of, and to prevent him from committing any more for the future. You see by this that the nomination to livings, dependant on that abbey, does not lie in the bishop of Leira, but in the monks, and consequently that the grant he has made to Don Lopez must be absolutely void. However, as you interest yourself in this affair, I shall immediately write to Lisbon to have it cleared up, I have some friends there who will take a pleasure in informing themselves of every thing relating to this living."
In the mean time, Don Lopez, after having left his ducats behind him at Lisbon, returned to Coimbra with his certificates, and immediately on his arrival waited upon his friend the doctor, to whom he caused himself to be introduced under the title of the prior of Caballos. Don Alvar complimented him on his new dignity, and after having regaled him in an elegant manner, took him with him to the bishop, to whom he had first recommended him. The conversation turned upon the bishop of Leira, whom Don Lopez extolled to the skies; "I am very glad, said the bishop of Coimbra, to hear you thus praise your benefactor, it is a sign of a generous and grateful heart: but seignor Don Lopez, you are not so very much obliged to this prelate as you seem to imagine, for I have just been informed, that the living to which he has nominated you is not vacant, the incumbent being a young man who is still alive, and in perfect good health."
A thunderbolt would not have had a greater effect on Don Lopez, than this speech of the bishop's. The shame and indignation at seeing himself the dupe of a man who had so imposed upon him by his hypocrisy, deprived him a while of speech, and almost of sense. The good bishop, perceiving his confusion, began to suspect that his brother of Leira had played him some worse trick, and in order to recover him from his dejection promised to assist him with all his interest. "Take courage, Don Lopez, said he, with an air and tone that had nothing of hypocrisy in it, you have a generous protector in Don Alvar, I shall pay a proper regard to his recommendation, and you may depend on the first good living that falls within my gift."
These obliging assurances somewhat recovered our licentiate from his perplexity. He returned the bishop a thousand thanks for his goodness, and the conversation was turn'd on a different topic, to put disagreeable reflections out of his head. When they had taken their leaves of the bishop, he began to relate the whole of his adventure to Don Alvar, begging his advice how to act in the case. "Why you can do nothing at all, reply'd the prudent doctor; when once a bishop has thrown off the mask, as this has done, it is a folly for private persons
to think of bringing him back to his duty. You have acted a fool's part in pretending to buy a living, and the bishop of Leira has made you smart for it, by selling you one that did not belong to him. You have met with no more than what you deserve."
"That may be, replied Don Lopez, I might be a fool perhaps, but he is not less a knave for making me pay so dear for my folly." "Would to heaven, said the doctor, with a sigh, he was the only one! Believe me Don Lopez, added he, the best and only method you can take, is to recall your notes if it is not already too late, for as to your money, you must never expect to see that again. Profit by this accident, and be more upon your guard for the future against appearances." "That I shall, replied Lopez, tho? it was the pope himself.? "You will act very wisely in so doing, said Don Alvar, for he is a man as well as others."
 VI.
A stratagem of the Licentiate's to avoid paying the tax imposed on him
A convent-visitation. What passed there.
THIS story of D. Lopez was followed by several others much in the same taste, which my uncle took great pleasure in relating to me, so heavily did the patriarchal tax lye at his stomach. Finding him in such a grievous taking I offered to return to the manor-house and endeavour to procure some abatement in the sum. "That is a good thought enough, said my uncle, but I have just hit upon a better; I will send his lordship as a ballance to the account he has been pleased to favour me with, another of the expence I have been at in providing for his mules and horses and we shall see which of us two can best swell his articles."
I had complaisance enough to appear pleased with his project, which he directly put in execution; but, good heavens! what a scene of exaction was here! I know not whether it proceeded from revenge or avarice, but every single truss of straw in my uncle's account stood the bishop in at least twelve crusades. In short the honest Licentiate had so well managed his calculations in the several articles, that on the ballance he brought his lordship in debt to him upwards of twenty ducats.
With this curious account I set out for the manor-house, where I arrived about four o'clock. The patriarch who had been at table ever since noon was not yet arisen, but was regaling himself with another bottle of greek wine, and would not have quitted this occupation but an account of the visit which he was to pay to the nuns of the convent, which my uncle Don Antonio had been telling me of. Desirous of being a witness to what passed, I accompanied him thither; at first I was refused entrance, it being the prelate's orders that no one should be admitted; but having mingled among his officers, I overcame that obstacle and gained admission.
As he had sent word to the community to be ready against his arrival, we found all the nuns assembled in the parlour to receive him at his entrance. But it is hardly possible to describe the surprize they shewed at the sight of the reverend patriarch. The poor girls, who had formed such an idea of him in their owns minds, as we are wont to do of things we have heard much talk about and never seen, were astonished when they beheld his diminutive and grotesque figure. Some tittered under their veils, others turned away their faces, not daring to look at him, and kept their eyes fixed on the ground, not so much thro? modesty, as the fear of laughing in his face; others again wholly unable to contain themselves, ran away the instant he made his appearance.
This scene was not more diverting to me, than it was mortifying to the partriarch. He flew into a violent rage against the poor girls whom he declared to be all heritics, that had no respect for the episcopal dignity; he ordered those to be sent for back who had retired, and
threatened with excommunication any one who should have the insolence to laugh again; after this he read them a long lecture on the dignity of the episcopal function, and laboured greatly to prove that bishops were the immediate successors of the apostles. I should have been better pleased had he proved them to be as strict imitators of them likewise, but this was rather too knotty a point, and liable to too many contradictions.
After he ended his harangue he began to fall foul again of his audience, whom he said had given him great reason to be displeased with them, he accused the prioress with permitting her nuns to read bad books. They read your grace's, replied the prioress with great respect, and I never supposed that that would be imputed as a crime to them; oh, as to mine, said the prelate, very modestly, they cannot read better, they are the very quintescence of religion and morality, my writings are such as you have scarcely met with the equal of hitherto, nor perhaps ever may again. If you had never read no other, you would not have been so rebellious as you are, I teach nothing but implicit obedience and nonresistance. Your grace's observation is just, answered the prioress, accordingly we pay the strictest observance to the rules of which your illustrious predecessors have laid down for us from time immemorial. My predecessors replied the patriarch might act as they pleased while they were alive, I shall teach what I think proper; and we, my lord, rejoined the prioress, shall believe what we think proper, there is the same liberty for both parties, it is a right that every one has a claim to in matters of novelty. What, replied the patriarch hastily, you look upon me then as an innovator? Your grace, answered the prioress, has just been pleased to tell us that you would teach what you thought proper; we have been always accustomed to look upon the principles of religion as fixed and not matters of fancy, and therefore think it our duty to guard against all such who know no other rules than their own whims. Ha ha! replied the patriarch, you take the teacher upon you I think, pray how long have women set up for being bishops? Ever since bishops, my lord, answered the prioress, have become women.
These spirited and pertinent answers gauled the bishop to such a degree, that he could hardly keep his temper, and seemed far from being satisfied with his visit, and to punish the nuns for their supposed heresy, he refused them his patriarchal blessing, telling them moreover, that they would incur as many excommunications as they should read bad books. Nevertheless his anger was not so violent as to prevent him from taking part of a magnificent collection which was served up to him, in which he found the wine to be truly catholic. Thus ended the patriarch's visitation; and he returned to the manor-house, where a warm room and a large fire were prepared to refresh him after his evangelical fatigues.
I laid hold on this opportunity to see the proper officer relating to the business I came about, and presented him with the account which my uncle had sent by me, at which he exclaim'd as violently as the honest Licentiate had done the day before at the patriarch's demand. Tho? in truth he had only served him in his own coin. All that I could get from the officer at this time was, that he would speak to the patriarch about it, but we heard no more from him; for the next day he set out on his visitation to the neighbouring towns and convents, where I supposed he reaped as little satisfaction as he had done with us.
VII.
Country missionaries. Ranucio follows them. His encounter by the way.
SOME days past without our seeing any company, which did not a little surprise me, as Don Antonio's house was the general rendesvous of the holy brotherhood. Upon asking him the reason of our being thus solitary, he informed me that they were all taken up in collecting their tithes: but that we should not be long without seeing them again. I was beginning to be heartily tired of our solitude, when providence sent us four monks who
came to set up at the parsonage-house for a night. Don Antonio, who thought he should be quit of them for a night's lodging, gave them so hearty a welcome, that when bed time came, it was with some difficulty they could find the way to their apartment. I forgave them this little piece of intemperance, in consideration of the amusement it afforded me. "Tis certainly a curious sight to see a monk half seas over! I was in hopes they would have given us the same entertainment the next day, but they were very sober and modest, which surprised me not a little, however my wonder soon ceased upon hearing them tell my uncle that they were sent by the patriarch on a mission into his parish, that is to say, replied my uncle briskly, that you are come to live at free quarters here for a fortnight, in order to eat me out of house and home. But I must tell you that I am the patriarch's most humble servant and yours, and that I think it is enough that he has made me keep his horses while he was here, without sending me a set of asses to maintain likewise.
This frank speech of Don Antonio's, and the arch manner with which he accompanied, it gave me great pleasure, and no less mortification to the poor monks. It may be imagined they did not make a very long stay after such a declaration- Accordingly they set out immediately after dinner, shaking the dust off their feet in the manner of the apostles, and bestowing a thousand maledictions on the curate and his parish who only laughed at them for their pains, and took the road to Massillia, which was but a days journey distant, where they hoped to meet with a much better reception; and not without very just reason, for the curate of that place had been one of their own order, and retained no more of his primitive state than a great share of ignorance and a blind attachment to all of his fraternity.
Don Antonio could not have mortified me more sensibly than in sending the monks away as he did, considering how destitute we were of all company, and I could not forbear complaining to him of it: why, I thought, said he, that I should do you a pleasure in it, but since I have been mistaken, there is yet one way left to repair my error. These fathers are going no farther than Massilia, where Castilmero will infallibly detain for some time; it is that foolish fellow that you saw here a few days ago, who was so warm in the interests of prince Albanius's son as to fall to fifty cuffs about him. He is an intimate acquaintance of mine, and if you have a desire to see the mission you may be assured of an hearty welcome at his house. You will likewise have an opportunity of seeing your aunt Donna Victoria who lives thereabouts, and who will, I am persuaded, be very glad to see you. Perhaps too I myself may pay you a visit there in a little time.
The earnest desire I had to follow the missionaries would not permit to hesitate long in accepting this offer, and as I was eager to be gone, I set out the next day, taking with me my uncle's man Ambrose to serve me as a guide. As I did not stay to breakfast before I began my journey, I stopped about eleven o'clock at a little village on the road in hopes of getting some refreshment, but was there was no such thing as an inn to be found in the place, we were obliged to push on to Atourega, where we did not arrive till between two and three o'clock in the afternoon.
My first care was to go into the kitchen to enquire what we could have to eat. Nothing, replied the landlord, I was greatly shocked at such an answer, especially as I saw at the same time victuals upon the spit. And pray, said I, who is this for? for two gentlemen, said he, that are waiting for their dinners.
I should have probably been satisfied with this answer, had not necessity, which is the mother of invention, inspired me with a lucky thought, which was to desire the two gentlemen to admit me to partake with them, and ordered the landlord to shew me into the room where they were, my presence seemed to throw the two travellers into some confusion and I felt myself struck in an unaccountable manner at the sight of them. One appeared to be a man of about fifty, and the other near twenty. The surprizing beauty of the latter made so forcible an impression on me, that I almost forgot the occasion of my coming amongst them.
The old gentleman, who probably saw with some uneasiness the great notice I took of his companion, roused me, by asking what I would please to have with them. But how great was my astonishment when I knew him by his voice to be the monk Pancracio. Mercy on us! my venerable father, cried I, is it you I see in this disguise? Pancracio, who was doubtless desirous to keep himself concealed, pretended not to know me, and gave me to understand, that he supposed I mistook him for another person, no, no, said I, I am not mistaken good seignor Pancracio, we have seen one another a little too nearly to be mistaken, however you have nothing to fear either from my curiosity or my indiscretion, the disguise I now see you in, gives me to suppose that you are upon some scheme and I am not so imprudent to desire to know what you have an inclination to conceal. All that I have to request of you is, that you will be kind enough to admit me to your table.
The confusion in which I saw the two cavaliers, confirmed me in my suspicion that the monk had met with some adventure since I had left Lisbon, I was nettled to the quick at their silence which I took for a refusal to my request, and turning to the monk I reproached him in the severest terms for his hard ill-nature, declaring that I would be revenged on him by making it my first business at my return home, to put a stop to the numerous alms that our family bestowed on his convent.
"Hold seignor Ranucio, replyed he, stopping me as I was going to fling out of the room, you are inraged, and not without reason, but forgive this seeming rudeness in me, and impute it wholly to the surprise occasioned by the unexpected meeting with you in this place. The disguise in which you see this gentleman and myself, may convince you that we desire to be concealed from all the world. But since it has pleased fortune that we should be discovered, we cannot be esteem ourselves happy to have fallen into the hands of a man of honour, and one who has always expressed a compassion for that state of life, from which we are now escaped. Yes, charming Constantia, continued the monk, addressing himself to the young gentleman, you see in this young cavalier a person of the greatest honor perhaps this day in Portugal, a person who so far from divulging our adventure, will be the first to conceal it and heartily compassionate both the one and the other."
It would be difficult to express my astonishment at finding the person who was with Pancracio, to be a nun. Her excessive beauty had made a strong impression on me at first sight, and I could not help thinking that it must be a person of more than common stamp; but it did not once enter into my imagination that she had worn a coif. But if I was surprised at the oddity of this adventure, Pancracio was much more so at the manner in which she answered him. "What then, base impostor, said she, giving him a look full of fury and indignation, are you not the person you made me believe you was, the marquis of Bellicera, uncle to Don Henriquez! O heavens! is it possible you should have dared to make use of that respectable name to seduce me to take such a step as this?" "Forgive, fairest creature, replied Pancracio, the artifice which love obliged me to make use of: that love which yourself inspired, and which would not permit me to see you in a condition that violence and despair first drove you to embrace, and in which you passed your life in bitterness and sorrow, without using every means in my power for your deliverance."
"Traitor replied Constantia, hast thou the insolence to remain in my presence after this avowal of thy crime! is it not enough that thou hast prevailed on me by the basest of all deceits to abandon the retreat whither my misfortunes had driven me, but thou must add this new injury, and affront me with the declaration of a passion as infamous as it is detestable? Credulous fool that I was, I thought thy only motives had been pity and compassion, and the desire of uniting me once more to the dear object of all my wishes. Alas! I find now that thou wast acting only for thy wretched self. Alas! unhappy creature that I am, what had I to expect from a villain who makes his sport alike of heaven and of man?"
She accompanied these last words with a flood of tears, while Pancracio made use of every tender argument he could think of to calm her rage. I was so shocked at this scene, and so scandalized at such a proceeding in a man of his profession that I was on the point of leaving the room and continuing my journey, when reflecting that the monk, whose brutal passion sparked in his eyes might possibly proceed to great extremes, I resolved to stay and protect the unhappy lady from his insults, and if possible, deliver her out of his hands.
I was ruminating on this design when dinner was brought in. I immediately sate down to table and pressed the two false cavaliers to do the same, but one was so full of grief and the other so taken up with his passion, that they could not listen to me. As for me who knew nothing more grievous at that time than hunger, I fell to, till such time as it should please them to keep me company. If I was greatly diverted with the ridiculous languishments and sighs of the enamoured monk, I was no less afflicted with the grief and despair in which I beheld the unhappy fair one. Imagine to yourself, a young creature, extremely beautiful, who finds herself in the hands of an old treacherous monk, without knowing what will become of her. Such was the situation of the fair Constantia, which would doubtless have been considerably worse but for our lucky meeting. The name of Henriquez which she frequently repeated amidst her tears and sobbings, excited my curiosity, and made me desire to be informed what connections she had with that gentleman.
"Alas! sir, said she, "tis to him that I owe all my misfortunes, he was the first and the
only author of them.	But was that gentleman known to you sir/" continued she. I
replied, "that I had some time ago been intimately connected with a gentleman whose name was Don Henriquez de Bellicera, who had suddenly disappeared from Lisbon, and had not been yet heard of." "It is the same sir, replied Constantia, and you see before you the person for the love of whom he was obliged to fly his country; since you have been friends sir, let me intreat you for the sake of that friendship, to protect an unhappy woman, for whose sake he would not hesitate to hazard his own life." "It would be the last degree of injustice, madam, answered I, to refuse your request. But oblige me so far as to inform me, what share he had in your misfortunes, and how they were brought about. I do not ask this out of an idle curiosity , but the knowledge of it will be absolutely necessary to direct me in the manner in which I am to serve you. Constantia made some difficulty at first to comply with my request, but the need she had of my assistance, getting the better of her self love, she related to me at large the history of her life, as the reader will find in the ensuing chapter.
 VIII.
The story of Constantia and don Henriquez.
DON MANUEL DE Montoya my father having quitted the army retired with my brother to one of his estates in order to retrieve his affairs, which had been greatly disordered during the war: tho? I was then but a child, I felt a sensible uneasiness at this kind of disgrace as it appeared to me, but what gave me still more concern, was the evident partiality my parents shewed in favour of Don Alphonso my brother. He received all the marks of their favour and indulgence, while I was looked upon only as an obstacle to the fortune of this darling son, and in hopes that I might one day remove it of my own accord, they left me behind them in the convent of St. Salvador in Lisbon, flattering themselves that by being deprived of the pleasures of the world, and the company of my family and friends, and having only the nuns to converse with, I should by degrees take a liking to their life and put on the veil. Accordingly they suffered me to remain there for ten years, at the expiration
of which time they made their appearance again in Lisbon, and in a more brilliant manner than ever.
They did not affect this grandeur so much to indulge any pride of their own, as for the sake of their son Alphonso, for whom they hoped by this means to procure one of the best alliances in the kingdom, and to make this still more sure, they industriously spread abroad a report that I was to renounce the world and embrace a monastic life. In private there were no endeavours omitted that they thought most likely to persuade me to their lure; caresses, sollicitations from the nuns, and my own relations, presents, frequent visits and remonstrances on the happiness and delights of a religious life, were all made use of, and my brother was not a little assiduous in labouring to persuade me that I was born for a such a life, and that it would suit me the best of any, but unhappily his endeavours produced the very contrary effect to what was intended.
One day that he came to pay me a visit and give me his customary exhortations, he brought with him Don Henriquez de Bellacina, with whom he then lived in the most friendly intimacy. This young gentleman took a liking to me at first sight; and I, on my side, felt something for him that I had never experienced before. As he was your friend I need not detain you with a description of his person and manners, nor of the thousand tender arts he was master of to conquer a virgin's heart. Mine, alas! could not hold out against them, but yielded itself a willing conquest to the amiable qualities of the youthful Henriquez. I gave myself up without reserve to my growing fondness, and took a greater dislike than ever to a religious life, and the arguments made use of to persuade me to embrace it.
I took such care to conceal the impression that this young gentleman had made on my heart, that it was not in the least perceived by any one of my own family or in the monastery. Even my brother was so little suspicious of any thing of that nature, that he brought him with him almost every time he visited me, but Don Henriquez was so impatient to discover his sentiments to me, that in a little time he took the liberty of coming alone.
What made him more hasty to take this step, was a pretty smart conversation which passed one day in his presence, between my brother and myself on the old subject, in which he told me that my parents were taking the proper measures to oblige me to put on the veil. Alarmed at this, my lover resolved to seize the first opportunity of declaring his sentiments to me, and make me an offer of his services. Accordingly the very next day, he came by himself to visit me; he no sooner saw me, than addressing me with a deep sigh, "Well, madam, said he, you are then on the point of falling a victim to your own compaisance, the ambition of your parents, and the establishment of a brother's fortune. Heavens! is it for a person like you to make such a sacrifice? You for whom any one who had my eyes and my heart, would gladly sacrifice themselves. No, adorable Constantia, I must oppose such a resolution: perfections like yours were never made to be bury'd in a cloister, leave that to those unhappy ones of your sex, whom want of beauty or the gifts of fortune, drives to such extremities, and do not you by so rash a step destroy for ever the peace and happiness of the most tender of lovers."
Tho? I had many times before read in the eyes of Don Henriquez the story of his love, yet I affected great surprise at this open declaration, but I found it too agreeable to shew any marks of resentment at it, I found that I could not reject his homage without betraying my own sentiments, however I thought it best to dissemble them for some time, and affecting an air of gayety, "Seignor, said I, when Don Alphonso first procured me the honor of your acquaintance, he introduced you as one of his friends, I am sorry to say that I do not find you act up to that character. You cannot be ignorant of the motives that induce my parents to press me to a religious life, and it is but ill requiting the trust reposed in you, to throw obstacles in the way of your friend's fortune; you know as well as me that it depends on my leaving the world, and here you have made a declaration that tends to bring me back to it,
were I simple enough to give any belief to you." "Ah, madam, said Don Henriquez, interrupting me, can you then suspect me of the blackest of all perfidies? I betray your brother! I feign a passion I do not feel! For heaven's sake do more justice to my honor. Know a little better the power of your own charms, and then you will own that no heart can be proof against them; mine is so deeply penetrated by them, that I am determined to make your condition more happy than it is at present."
"It was doubtless with this view, replied I snearingly, that you was so very pressing with me in the presence of my brother, to embrace the life he proposed to me. It is a very singular way of manifesting love, to use every endeavour to deprive one self of the beloved object for ever." Is it possible, said Don Henriquez, that your heart will suffer you to impute to me as a crime, a step that I was urged to by the most ardent passion? I advised you it is true, to comply with the desires of your family, but had I acted otherwise before your brother, would it not have been the surest way of preventing me from ever seeing you again, or using my endeavours to free you from the cruel tyranny that is exercised over you? I have now gained the confidence of a man who would otherwise have it in in his power to frustrate all my intentions." "And of what service, replied I, can be the confidence of a person who will naturally oppose you to the utmost, the moment he perceives your true drift, and the design you have to overturn, his schemes of fortune? Be advised by me, Don Henriquez, and bestow your services in another place where they may be attend with less fatal consequences to us both; for was I to answer your passion, my parents would infallibly oppose an alliance, which, tho' very honorable for me, would intirely frustrate their designs."
"That must be try'd, madam, replied Don Henriquez, therefore let me request your leave to found them on this head: good heavens! what would I not do to save you from the violence they intend you? Even tho? I should have no other satisfaction than that of procuring you the liberty of disposing of yourself, I should think all my pains overpaid."
How generous soever this offer of Don Henriquez appeared to me, I did not think it proper to accept of it at that time, on the contrary, I injoined him a strict silence in relation to what had passed between us, and to engage his compliance, set before him the unreasonableness of my parents, who, should they come to hear of our interview, would not desire a better pretence to debar me from ever speaking to any stranger again. I represented this to him in such a light, that he promised me never to suffer the least hint to escape him, and took his leave of me with a thousand protestations of love and offers of service.
The extreme desire my parents had to see me fixed in my choice, suffered them not to remain long absent from me, accordingly I had a visit from them soon after, in which I had to undergo a new attack, and of a more disagreeable and dangerous kind, as Don Henriquez, who omitted no opportunity of seem me, was with them; I was greatly afraid least his presence should have made me betray my heart, and give them room to suspect that my resistance was owing to a secret inclination for him, but on the other hand, I found myself animated by the sight of that lovely youth, with double resolution to withstand the artifices and obstinacy of those who would seduce me.
After having suffered them to display all the religious rhetoric that worldly people are wont to make use of on such occasions, I began in my turn to talk of the holiness and purity required in a religious life, to which I said no one ought to aspire without a particular call. I added, that it was tempting God, to enter upon such a life without having first made a strict tryal of one's heart, and that such a tryal was not the work of a day, that the acquaintance I had with a monastic life, had convinced me that there were very few truly religious in it: that if they were absolutely determined upon my entering into that state, I should be glad they would allow me a sufficient time for my probation, as I could not help owning that I did not at present find any inclination to pass my days in a cloister; but that we were to despair of nothing; that God had his minutes, and gave that at one time which he refused at another: and
that if I did not at last find myself properly fitted to embrace the state they recommended to me, I hoped to find in their goodness a completion for my own defects.
This speech had such an effect upon them, that they ceased pressing me any farther for that time. My father contented himself with saying, "that since my vocation was not yet come, it would be proper to wait till it did." However, his age and experience, which was not easily to be imposed upon, made him suspect that the violent aversion I shewed to a convent proceeded from no other cause than some one's having found the means to please me.
I was tolerably handsome, and of an age to inspire love, and to be inspried with it myself. He therefore made a strict enquiry, whether I had ever received any of those visits which are so apt to breed disorders in a monastery, but was assured that I had seen no one but my brother; not satisfied with this, he interrogated my brother concerning what past at those visits, who owned to him, that he had often been to see me in company with a young gentleman of his acquaintance, who was so far from being any obstacle to the family's
designs, that he had even joined him in his exhortations to me to embrace a religious life. 	
"So much the worse, son, reply'd Don Manuel, such advice as this does not appear natural in the young gentlemen of our age, who, for the most part, think of nothing but gallantry and the pleasures of the world. Don Henriquez is an accomplished cavalier, and I do not in the least doubt but that he sides with your sister, and that this is the chief reason of her proving so refractory to my will. Love, son, insinuates itself into a convent under more than one form, it enters under the priest's robes, and the monk's frock. I leave you to judge then, if coming in the shape of an handsome young fellow, it will be long suing for admittance. It is certainly as I tell you, therefore, endeavour to get out of your friend what I want to know; women are generally too much upon their guard in love affairs, there's no coming easily at their real sentiments. Young fellows, on the contrary, are, for the most part, so very full of their own merit, that they take all opportunities of publishing their conquests, consequently you will meet with no great difficulty in gathering all you desire to know from Don Henriquez. Go then immediately to him, and if you find my suspicions to be true, I leave you to take such measures as are most agreeable to the honor of your family, and your own interest."
Don Alphonso, finding his ambition and avarice roused by this speech, instantly quitted my father, and went in search of his friend, and asked him with an air of confidence, what he thought of me, and my destination to a convent. Don Henriquez, who did not suspect the least artifice, answered him frankly, "that he thought me very amiable, and that it gave him the greatest uneasiness to see the persecutions I underwent, in order to make me renounce the world." "This is as much as to say, replied my brother hastily, that you love my sister, and have found means to make yourself beloved by her in return." "And, supposing it should be so, answered Don Henriquez, what fault could you have to find with? My family, is I believe, good enough to pretend to an alliance with your's, and my own fortune is not so inconsiderable as to make your parents suspect that I have any design upon their money."
Tho? nothing could be more moderate than this reply, yet Don Alphonso was offended at it, and whether he took it as a reproach meant to his own avaritious disposition, or that what his father had said to him had put him beside his reason, he made a quarrel of it with his friend. Henriquez, who was prudent, tho? brave, took no notice of may affronting things he said to him, but finding himself at length pushed to extremeties, he lost all patience, and they both went out into the fields of St. Claire where they drew their swords. They had exchanged several thrusts when the son of the regidor of Lisbon, happening to pass that way, knew my brother, and seeing him hard pushed by Don Henriquez, ran to part them; in the doing which,
ill fortune would have it that he received an unlucky thrust which laid him dead on the spot. This accident put a stop to the duel for the present, and each of them retired.
Don Henriquez had only time to write me a short billet, in which he acquainted me with what had happened, and then retired in all haste to Tavora, the capital of the kingdom of Algarva. But, good heavens, what a consternation was mine at reading this fatal note! I instantly foresaw all the fatal consequences of that passion with which he had inspired me, nor was I long without feeling them in their full extent, for my father paid me a visit a few days afterwards, in which he loaded me with the most bitter reproaches, and concluded with telling me, "that it was his absolute determination that I should instantly take the veil."
The violent passion I saw him in, would not permit me to make him any denial, I therefore promised to do whatever he would have me. Indeed the loss of my dear Don Henriquez had thrown me into such despair, that I was wholly indifferent to every thing else in the world. My father was agreeably surprized at my resolution, and to fortify me in it, put me under the direction of this worthy gentleman you see here, who described a religious life to me in the most holy and amiable lights. I leave you to judge, sir, how well his practice agrees with his doctrine.
"I am not at a loss, madam, answered I, what judgment to form of those kind of exhortations, they may be compared to those which are made use of by soldiers, to give others an high idea of the excellence and charms of their profession, in order to entice them to inlist with them. I have had an instance of this before in the very same reverend gentleman, who left no stone unturned to engage me into his order. He has plaid the same part with you, and this day's adventure has taught me what to think of the innocence and purity of his vows."
"Alas! replied Constantia, I was quite ignorant of them at that time. All that I have to say is, that the loss of my lover, and the violent temper of my father, determined me to comply with every thing they asked of me. I therefore voluntarily buried myself alive at the flower of my age. From that time I broke off all visits, and applied myself wholly to a life of devotion and contemplation. Nor did I see the face of any man except this Pancracio, who was my ghostly director, and him only at the hours of confession; but this correspondence, which ought to have been wholly sacred to the purposes of religion, seemed only to give me a greater distaste to it, his conversation insensibly tended to stir up the latent sparks of love within my breast, and by continually talking to me of Don Henriquez, whom he pretended to have been acquainted with, and on whom he lavished the greatest encomiums, he made him appear more lovely to me than ever.
I was not long before I felt the fatal effects of this procedure. My exercises were now grown hateful to me, solitude, prayer, and silence became insupportable, and I longed to renew my commerce with the world. Alas! had my miseries stopt here! But punishments as well as sins always follow one another. I now conceiv'd an entire aversion to a religious life, I passed whole nights and days in lamenting my unhappy fate, and seeking means for deliverance. Sometimes I accused Don Henriquez, to whose precipitate flight I owed all my misfortunes. Sometimes I called upon him to return to put an end to all my sufferings.
I was in this cruel situation when one day Pancracio, to whom I had imparted all my sufferings, came to acquaint me that the marquis de Bellacina was just arrived at Lisbon, and desired to be admitted to see me. This was only then a trick of this imposter's to bring me into a scheme that he was meditating; the better to conceal his artifice, he pretended that the marquis dare not appear abroad by day for fear of being assassinated by the Regidor's people, who already knew of his arrival, and was determined to sacrifice him to the manes of his son. In consequence of which, he begged I would allow of an interview with him by night.
As I was far from suspecting my director of any deceit, I readily consented to what he required, and when night came went down into the parlour where I was told a gentleman was
waiting to speak with me. After the first compliments, the pretended marquis told me that he brought me news from his nephew Don Henriquez, who begged me to be assured of the continuance of his love and esteem.
"The esteem your nephew is pleased to have for me, my lord, answered I, does me great honor, and I should be happy to preserve it all my life but I cannot say the same with respect to his love. The step I have taken since his departure has put it out of my power to listen to any thing more of that kind, and I have too high a notion of Don Henriquez? honor to suppose that he would desire to engage me in a criminal commerce. But tho? religion forbids me to receive any farther testimonies of his passion, yet it cannot prevent me from having a tender sense of those marks of his remembrance, and interesting myself warmly in every thing that relates to him."
The counterfeit marquis pretended to be greatly surprized at what he heard, and cry'd out in a transport, "Is it then possible, madam, that you have made your vows? Good God, what a stroke for the amorous Henriquez! What will become of him when he hears this fatal news? Alas, it will cost him his life! And could you, madam, take such a step without reflecting on the fatal consequences it must bring to him? He had given me to understand that you had flattered him with some hopes, in consequence of which I came hither to solicit his pardon, and to see your parents in order to get their consent to an alliance which he has never ceased to languish after since the first time he had the honor of being acquainted with you."
"I will not pretend to conceal from you, my lord, answered I, that I should have esteemed myself happy and honored in such an union. The sentiments with which your nephew had inspired me, were too virtuous and pure to occasion a blush, but my unhappy fate did not permit me to enjoy that satisfaction. A father's absolute will has got the better of my inclination, and I have given my heart to God, as I was deprived of the only object which, after him appeared worthy of my love."
I found by the answer the marquis made me that he was far from being pleased with this declaration. At that time I imputed the discontent that appeared in his countenance, to his finding it impossible to make me his niece but this day has discovered to me the true reason: however, he quitted me in an hasty manner, and I returned to my cell, from whence I did not stir till the next day, passing all that night in the most melancholly reflections, occasioned by this new adventure. I reproached myself for my too hasty compliance, and for not having waited a little longer for Don Henriquez? return. I blamed my father for his unnatural severity in thus sacrificing my peace and happiness to his ambition and avarice. In a word, I said and thought every thing that may be supposed from one in my unhappy circumstances.
Early the next day I sent for Pancracio, in hopes of meeting with some consolation from his advice and admonitions: I laid open my whole heart to him, he appeared touched with my misfortunes, but instead of applying the salutary steel to eradicate my disorder at once, he acted like those surgeons, who, by flattering their patient's weakness, increase the malady. "Alas! cry'd he, I know but too well what it is to be deprived for ever of what we love, I feel it every day, but you, madam, have this advantage over me, that your sufferings admit of relief. Thirty years past in a religious life, render it impossible for me to recall a step that the heat and folly of youth hurried me into. Alas! if I was but like you in the second year of my profession only! What miseries should I have spared myself; but unhappily for me, my engagement, tho? the effect of despair, was voluntary, and is now become indissoluble."
"How, replied I, can we recall our vows, when they are the effect of force and constraint? "Doubtless, madam, continued, he, and it is no small comfort to you under your misfortunes, that you are the mistress of putting an end to them when you please: nevertheless I would not advise you to have recourse to those measures, till no others will do.
There are certain formalities to be observed on those occasions, and a thousand difficulties offer themselves to such an attempt; in short, it appears hardly feasible to extricate oneself with the least appeaarance of honor, after once having made profession; but there are shorter and surer ways of going to work, which I would gladly instruct you in, were I certain that you found it absolutely impossible for you to lead a monastic life."
These last words considerably allay'd the anxiety I had been under from the marquis? visit, and the revived remembrance of my dear Henriquez. I no longer thought myself unhappy, since I found that it was in my own power to put an end to my miseries; so true it is that the misery and happiness of mankind are often the mere work of their own imaginations. The death of my father which happened at this time seemed to crown all my wishes; and I should play the hypocrite, was I to pretend to say that the loss of a parent who had always treated me in so unnatural a manner sat very heavy at my heart, in short I soon got over the first concern the news of a parent's death must naturally give to every dutiful child, and thought of nothing but renewing my commerce with the world.
A second visit which I received from the supposed marquis of Bellacina completed my design. He came to take his leave of me, and to let me know that he was upon his return to Tavora. I was greatly surprized that he mentioned nothing of Don Henriquez to me at this interview, which was in all probability to be the last, and therefore began the subject myself; but he always seemed desirous to turn the conversation, at which my love took the alarm, and I could not help asking him if he had heard lately from his nephew. He replied with great coldness that he hoped he was very well, but that he had not heard from him since the letter he wrote to inform him of the way of life I had embraced. Perhaps his silence, continued he, may be the object of the uneasiness this cruel piece of news must have cost him. However, I am about to carry him some that I hope will comfort him. His pardon which I have procured him, and a rich and beautiful heiress who is offered him for a wife, will I flatter myself make him forget the loss of your heart.
A stroke of a poniard could not have given me greater surprise than this speech of the marquis. As soon as I was come a little to myself, I told him that he must certainly have a very mean opinion of Don Henriquez's love and, constancy to suppose that he would so easily forget me. However, rash may be the step I have taken, continued; I, it is such as there were no means left to evade in my circumstances, besides I am not so deeply engaged but that I may retract my vows, however I shall be very cautious how I think of any such thing for the sake of a man, so changeable as you have described Don Henriquez to be.
"Ah! madam, cryed the imposter, how easily might you have fixed him, had you but given him the least hope of possessing you, but what likelihood of it was there after the engagements you had entered into? Even supposing it was possible for you to break them, it would require a great deal of time and trouble, and, I will not conceal it from you, all his family are very urgent with him to settle, we have no heir but him, I myself am possessed of a very considerable fortune, all which I shall leave to him, and I must own I should be glad to see a probability of successors to it, his friends are therefore unanimously resolved to get him a wife as soon as possible. I must own I could wish it were his first love, what he has told me of your virtue and accomplishments, and what I have seen of you myself added to the noble family you spring from, and the violent passion he has for you would make us all greatly happy in an alliance with you were it any way practicable.
This flattering speech and the hopes of once more seeing my dear Henriquez, made me lend a ready ear to the voice of seduction; I lost all power of resisting the tempter, whom I thought to be as honest as he appeared, however I kept within the bounds of decency, and contented my self with requesting him to defer his journey for a few days, till I should be able to determine what I had to do. The next morning I sent in all haste for Pancracio, to whom I
requested all that had passed, little imagining that I was acquainting the villain with what he knew better than myself.
"I see, said he, that your love for Don Henriquez is one of those passions which tho? we may resist for a while, yet it is impossible wholly to overcome; all that I could say to you therefore on this head would only serve to irritate it the more, so I think the best advice that can be given you is to follow without scruple the dictates of your heart. It is the heart that determines in all things; yours has all along been towards the world, from which it is evident, that you never had a due call to a religious life, consequently the engagements you have entered into are null and void, this is agreeable to the opinion of our greatest casuists, you are therefore at liberty to use all means of delivering yourself from this state of confinement. This indeed might be done in a judicial way, but to speak freely, I think that would be too hazardous for you to attempt, for the instant that either the community or your own friends and relations should get the least hint of your intending to retract your vows, they would instantly confine you in the prison of the convent and bar you from all possibility of stirring in the affair or obtaining a release of your vows.
To this discourse he added a lively picture of the severities exercised in monasteries over those of either sex, who are formed to entertain such notions. I had myself been witness to some of these which made me apprehensive of sharing the same treatment. The perfidious Pancracio did all in his power to keep up my spirits, and animate me to his purpose: "Be comforted, madam, said he, your case is not so desperate as you may imagine; there might a surer and more speedy way be found out to relieve you, provided you had a person to confide in, who was devoted to your service. Don Henriquez has an aunt, who lives a few miles from Lisbon. She is a widow lady, remarkable for her devotion; her established reputation will cover you from all censure for leaving the convent. You have nothing to do but feign yourself indisposed, and that charitable lady, under pretence of taking you out for the air, will carry you to her house where you will be at full liberty to procure a release from your vows."
As this project agreeably flattered my love, and I had not the least distrust of the sincerity of the adviser, I gave without hesitation into the snare, and the next morning took to my bed, where I counterfeited sickness so admirably that every one thought me what I seemed. I imposed in this manner on the whole community for above a week, at the end of which time a physician whom Pancracio had gained over to his interest, told the abbess that there were no other means to recover me but by allowing me to take the country air.
While the good abbess was deliberating with me upon the most proper place for that purpose, we had a visit from Donna Hortensia de Mascarrannez, which was the name of the pretended aunt of Don Henriquez whom Pancracio had spoken to me of, and whom he now accompanied into the parlour. I do not think that the world ever produced two more hypocritical countenances. The decent and modest deportment of the lady, joined to the most edifying manner of conversing, in which she was from time to time assisted by that impostor, so effectually deceived both the abbess and myself, that it was agreed by us that I should go and pass a fortnight at her house in the country.
They gave us no time for reflections, for the good lady came that very afternoon in her coach and took me away to a very handsome house she had in town, which she said she only made use of when obliged by business to quit her retirement in the country. The next morning I rose betimes, being desirous to quit the town as privately as possible, and went to press Donna Hortensia to set out, but was answered that some affairs had unexpectedly fallen out the evening before, which would prevent her from going into the country for some days, However, said she, if you must absolutely be gone, I will offer you the company of my cousin, the marquis de Bellacina, to conduct you thither; he is a very well-bred gentleman, and, I believe has the honour of being known to you. He will undertake this office with a
great deal of pleasure, and keep you company there, till I can have the opportunity of waiting on you myself."
This unlooked for delay threw me into a fresh dilemma; I ran a great risk by remaining in Lisbon, on the other hand, I thought it very indecent to trust myself alone upon a journey with a man. In this perplexity I had recourse to Donna Hortensia, whose advice I looked upon as the oracle of wisdom. She at first seemed to approve very much of my scruples, but afterwards removed them, by assuring me that I had nothing to fear from the marquis; "As to your relations, pursued she, I will not take upon me to answer for them, they doubtless know by this time of your having left the convent, and will leave nothing undone to find you out, therefore in my opinion the only way to elude their pursuits is to set out immediately. The gentleman whom I offer to you for a conducter is known to you, and is moreover, a man of that character, that you may go every where with him, and not be in the least fear of censure. However, if you are apprehensive of being known upon the road, or that your reputation should suffer from being seen in the dress of our sex, as you must at all events quit that which you now wear, I would advise you to put on men's cloaths, which will effectually screen you both from the pursuit of your friends, and the tongues of malicious people."
The counterfeit marquis, who came in while we were talking, approved greatly of this expedient, and I yielded to their opinions; accordingly we immediately sent for the dresses in which you now see us, and set out in a couple of post chaises on our journey, which we should without doubt have continued had not providence thrown you in our way.
This, sir, continued Constantia, is a short history of my life, and the adventures that brought me to this place. I leave you to judge what dangers your presence has delivered me from, for it is not to be doubted that this villain would have carried his horrible purpose to greater lengths, since he has had the impudence, even before you, to give way to his brutal transports. Do you then, sir, continued she, weeping bitterly, do you, sir, prove my protector and save me from the violence of this wicked ravisher; and, if possible, restore me either to my convent or my friends, I had rather experience a life of the greatest misery there, than be in the power of this abandoned miscreant, who thus joins sacrilege to the basest perfidy. Let me conjure you to this act of generosity by the remembrance of your old friend Don Henriquez, by that complaisance which every gentleman has for our sex, and by the compassion which our holy religion should inspire you with, in behalf of a distressed christian virgin.
Tho? I did not see how I could well carry her back to Lisbon without running the risk of my own safety, yet I was so touched with compassion for her misfortunes, that I promised to comply with every thing she desired of me, and pressed her to take a little refreshment, as she would stand in need of a recruit of strength and spirits to prosecute the intended journey. This prevailed upon her to take a couple of eggs which happened to be in the house. As to Pancracio I despised him too much to give myself any trouble about him. However I observed that rage and disappointment were painted in his countenance, and he would doubtless have played me some sorry trick, had he not known me for a person that was very ready to return any insult; therefore finding he could do nothing better, he e'en put a good face upon the matter and began to eat likewise, while I plac'd myself again at the table to induce Constantia to follow my example; and used all endeavours to dissipate her chagrin.
 IX.
Sequel of the story of Constantia and Don Henriquez.
OUR two gentlemen had just began to eat, when word was brought us that a young hermit who was just entered the inn, begged us to give him something for his dinner. Constantia ordered a chicken to be carried to him, which we imagined would rid us of him, but we were very much surprised to see him enter the room at the very instant. He had nothing of the monk about him, but the habit and a long beard, His fine large eyes, which were full of fire and vivacity, a skin of delicate whiteness, and a set of neat and beautiful features, added to an air of dignity and ease, plainly shewed him to be somewhat above those idle vermin who have recourse to the wretched artifice of a monkish frock to cover a life of poverty and laziness.
At entering the room, instead of saluting us as he should have done, he remained fixed and motionless; his eyes which were riveted on Constantia, plainly shewed that something more than ordinary passed within him; while those of Constantia, which were as earnestly fixed on him, seemed to speak no less on her side. They continued thus for some time, without uttering a word, at length, Constantia breaking silence, first asked him, "What was the reason of their looking so earnestly at each other." "Young gentleman, replied the hermit, I am ignorant of your reasons for looking at me so attentively, I did it because I fancy I am very well acquainted with your voice and features, and find a strong resemblance in them to a person who was once and ever will be dearer to me than life. An unforeseen accident tore me from her, and my greatest misfortune is, that I have not been able to get any account of her for upwards of three years that we have been separated. The continual uneasiness I have lived in upon her account has determined me to quit the kingdom of Algarva where I had taken refuge; and go in search of her to Lisbon at the peril of my life."
At these words Constantia could not forbear shewing marks of the greatest surprise and emotion; the agitation of her mind appeared visible in her face. The young hermit, who had never taken his eyes of her, quickly perceived it. "You seem confused, sir, said he, have you ever heard speak of the person you so much resemble, or have you any interest in her?" "Perhaps I may, reply'd Constantia, but before I satisfy you in that, do me the pleasure to inform me, if during your stay in Algarva, you have heard speak of the Count of Bellacina, on whose account I am under some uneasiness, the young gentleman is a relation of mine, and was obliged to quit Lisbon suddenly upon an affair of honor, and I have never been able to hear of him since his departure."
This speech of Constantia so disconcerted the young hermit, that he remained without the power of answering for some moments, at length when he was recovered from his surprize, "Sir, said he, I will not conceal from you that I am particularly acquainted with that gentleman, but before I enter into particulars, permit me to ask if there is no danger in declaring what I know concerning him, since very essential reasons oblige him to conceal himself; and the lady whom he loves, and whom he has given me a charge to find out, would never forgive me if any accident should happen to him thro? my imprudence."
"You would be under no apprehension son, of that kind, reply'd I, did you know me, and especially the person who enquires after Don Henriquez." "Alas! reply'd the hermit sighing, my heart indicates the truth to me but too strongly, yet appearances are so much
against me that	However, continued he, throwing himself at the feet of the young
man in disguise, receive adorable Constantia, the homage of a man who has loved you too well not to know you by the tender sentiments with you now inspire him. My eyes might
perhaps deceive me, but the heart which is the surest interpreter of love, tells me assuredly, that you are the lovely object of whom I am in search. Heavens, was ever happiness equal to mine! After three tedious years of absence I have at length found her I love, and found her at a time that I the least expected it."
I cannot easily describe the surprize and confusion Constantia was in at seeing a monk for the second time at her feet, but I could perceive that the homage of this latter did not appear disagreeable to her. Pancracio, who was present at this interview, could not forbear murmuring at the sight. "By the holy frock, said he, this girl seems born to inspire monks with love, even this little understrapper of a hermit must say fine things to her; but by St. Francis he shall not have the fingering of her any more than myself." Thus did this insolent monk comfort himself for the miscarriage of his plot, by the hopes of seeing his supposed brother fail in his attempt as well as himself.
He had not, however, this satisfaction; for the young hermit, having thrown aside his beard, which had prevented us from knowing him at first sight, now convinced us that he was the real Count de Bellacina. Pancracio was so confounded and terrified at this discovery, that he left the room without saying a word, and getting into his chaise, set off without knowing whether he was going. It was lucky for him that he acted in this manner, for had he stayed, and suffered any thing to escape him relating to his adventure, he would certainly have met with the immediate punishment due to his crimes.
Constantia, Henriquez, and myself, were now left together: after having embraced my friend, I asked him the reason of so strange a disguise. "My dear friend reply'd he, it is what you will not disapprove when I tell thee, that about three years ago I happened to kill the son
of the regidor of Lisbon	" "I know every thing, relating to that affair, reply'd I, and
that it occasioned your sudden departure." "It may be so, answed Don Henriquez, but you do not know, perhaps, that however excusable that accident was on my side, that I have not been able to obtain my pardon nor appear again a Lisbon, tho? it is now above three years since it happened. My banishment would have given me very little concern, added he, if the presence of my lovely Constantia and that of several dear friends, in the number of which let me reckon yourself, had not made that the most delightful spot in the world to me. I lost all patience at being so long deprived of them, and unable to live without the sight of Constantia, I resolved at all events to undertake this journey; accordingly I put on this habit to keep
myself the better from being known.	But may I, madam, continued he, looking tenderly
at Constantia, without offence ask you the reason of the disguise I now see you in. Has any accident befallen you during my absence? Alas! a sad forboding tells me as much, and the dress I see you in hardly permits me to doubt it."
"Would to heaven, my lord, reply'd Constantia, that your foreboding was false, but it seems as if fortune had made choice of us two for a compleatly unhappy pair; yet there is this difference between your misfortunes and mine, that love was the cause of your's, and that by ceasing to love me you may put a stop to them; whereas mine are beyond my power, and can end only with my life. They would, however, have been still more dreadful, had it not been for this generous friend, who, to preserve me for my dear Henriquez, freed me from my prison, and gave me a retreat with one of his relations. I ought, perhaps, to blush at owning that I had recourse to the assistance of a man, but senior Ranucio is so well known to you for his honour and probity, that this will be alone sufficient to banish every injurious suspicion from your breast. As he is perfectly acquainted with all that has happened to me, he will be able to give you a better account of my adventures than I could do myself."
I could not but admire the great presence of mind of Constantia, in having given so dexterous a turn to appearances which were so much to her disadvantage, and what gave me still more pleasure was to find that Don Henriquez had not the least suspicion of the deceit; so true is it, that a beloved object, tho? never culpable, will always appear innocent in our
eyes. My friend desired me to relate to him his mistress's adventures, and the reasons that had brought her thither in that disguise. This was a commission of a very delicate nature; however I undertook it to extricate the lady from her dilemma, and recounted to him all that happened during his absence, suppressing only what related to the monk Pancracio, and his persidious behaviour, and in the room of his counterfeit aunt substituted the name of Donna Victoria, to whose house I told him I was that night conducting Constantia. Don Victoria was the relation to whom my uncle, Don Antonio, had desired me to pay a visit, and with whom I had previously determined within myself to place Constantia before the arrival of her lover.
Henriquez thanked me over and over again for the pretended services I had done his mistress; but with regard to the asylum you had so kindly prepared for her, said he, I shall accept it no longer than for a few days, for I hope to employ the interest my friends have with the patriarch so effectually, as to obtain in a very little time a remission of her vows.
This agreeable news, and the manner in which I had conducted my relation, diffused such an air of gaiety over the countenance and behaviour of Constantia, that she had never appeared so beautiful to me as she did at that instant. The two lovers exchanged a thousand tender protestations, which would have held much longer had not my man Ambrose, who was surprised at my remaining so long at table, come to inform me that it was time to proceed on our journey. I observed this to the two lovers, who accordingly disposed themselves for setting out, and in a little time we arrived at Afequeas. When we alighted at Donna Victoria's home, being gone to church, I took this opportunity to quit Constantia and Henriquez and went to meet my aunt at her return home, in order to provide her for the reception of Constantia.
Happily for us she was none of those bigoted ladies who are always ready to think the worst of their neighbours, and imagine they should be partakers in their errors by giving them the least assistance. On the contrary, she had that true devotion which always makes those who possess it, ready to seize every opportunity of doing the greatest works of charity. This appeared to her in that light, and Constantia and her lover were received by the good lady with all imaginable civility and friendship. They could easily perceive by her behaviour, that she was informed of their whole story, but she was too well bred to give the least hint of it either in her words or actions. On the contrary, she did every thing in her power, both by her agreeable conversation and good cheer, to dissipate as much as possible any disagreeable reflections that might remain in the minds of her guests. Don Henriquez, who was continually sighing for the moment that was to unite him for ever to the object of his wishes, set out the very next day for Lisbon. Where he used his endeavours with such success, that he joined us again at the end of a week with his own pardon, and a full permission for Constantia to stand absolved from her vows, and to return again to the world, and the enjoyment of her fortune. We testified great surprize at seeing him return so speedily and with such success from a court that had for three years together been deaf to all intreaties on his behalf. "Your astonishment would be much greater, said he, addressing himself to Constantia, did you know that it is your mother, Donna Isabella, to whom we are indebted for this double favour." "O heaven! cry'd Constantia with transport, can I believe that she who was the most strenuous of all my relations to force me into a religious life, should have used her interest to get me absolved from it again?"
"You will be more ready to believe it, adorable Constantia, replied Don Henriquez, when I inform you of the motives that induced her to act in this manner. The great love she had for your brother, and his boundless ambition were the two sources of all your misfortunes, and to the latter of these passions we owe our present happiness. You must know then, that the very day in which you left your convent, she received the news of the death of your brother, Don Alphonso, who was killed in the late battle we gained against the Spaniards. This accident affected her in a sensible manner, not only on account of her great
fondness for him, but that by his death she saw herself intirely destitute of heirs. In the first transports of her grief, she reproached herself for his death, which she looked upon as a judgment of heaven for the violence she had used towards you. To repair this as much as was in her power, she went immediately to your convent, where she was told that you was gone for a few days into the country. This threw her into a fresh uneasiness. The repugnance she had always observed in you to a religious life, gave her a suspicion that this pretended jaunt was only a cloak to a real elopement. To come at the truth she enquired which way you was gone, but no one could give her any account. This occasion'd new alarms, new enquiries, but all to no purpose; all Lisbon was searched for you, and in hopes of bringing you back the sooner, she caused the news of your brother's death to be made public, and her intention of taking you from the convent, getting you absolved from your vows, and procuring you an husband and an handsome settlement.
This was the whole talk of the city when I arrived there. Judge, lovely Constantia, what must have been my joy to have returned at a juncture so favourable to my love; I immediately flew to your mother's house, where I found her in all the agonies of a sincere grief. I had no longer any reason to doubt of it when I saw her burst into tears at the mention of your name. Alas! she cry'd I deserve to lose her since I had the cruelty to sacrifice her to my ambition. It is I who have reduced her to the deplorable condition she is now in. Ah!
perhaps despair has before this made her	" "Have patience, madam, said I,
interrupting her, your daughter is too virtuous and too noble of mind ever to do any thing unworthy of her birth and honor. Be persuaded that to whatever place she is retired, she is safe from all danger, or the suspicion of it. You would be convinced of this did you know the persons who have given her an asylum." "What do I hear, father, said Isabella, in a transport of joy, is it, oh! is it possible that you should know where my dear child is?"
I told her that I did, and that I would even engage to restore you to her, provided that she would accept of the Count of Bellacina for a son-in-law. It is an alliance, said I, not unworthy of you. He is a young gentleman of a large fortune and of a noble family, and you cannot be ignorant that your daughter and he loved each other with tenderness. Alas! I know it too well, reply'd your mother, but perhaps you are not informed that this young nobleman has not been heard of for these three years past; would to heaven I could find him out, and that he would accept of my daughter's hand."
I turned my head aside and taking off my beard, desired her to look a little steadfastly at me. "Ah! my lord, cry'd she, the instant she knew me, is it possible you could have kept yourself all this while concealed from my eyes? But who could ever have known you again in this disguise!" I told her my reasons for appearing before her in that dress, and acquainted her with the whole story of your elopement, with which she was so much affected that she promised instantly to obtain my pardon, and the abrogation of your vows. The effect you see has immediately followed the promise, and I have now the joy to behold myself on the point of possessing the object of all my wishes. Your mother gives her consent to our marriage, and is coming hither in person to put the final conclusion to it, and to return her thanks to Donna Victoria and senior Ranucio for the friendships they have shewn to you, I left her at about a mile's distance and flew hither before her to be the joyful messenger of these happy tidings.
Scarce had Don Henriquez finished his relation, when we saw Isabella come in. Constantia no sooner perceived her chariot enter the court-yard, than she flew to meet her, and embraced her with the utmost tenderness. Donna Isabella melted into tears at seeing her daughter again, and expressed the greatest sorrow and contrition for what had passed. Nothing was now talked of but joy, love, and wedlock. The nuptials of Constantia were fixed for the following week, but Don Henriquez, impatient to possess his lovely spouse, could not brook so long delay, and prevailed on Isabella to shorten the time. In fact her only reason for
deferring the ceremony so long was, her being willing to have it performed in Lisbon, to avoid giving trouble to Donna Victoria; but that lady having assured her that it would be doing her the greatest honor and pleasure, it was performed the ensuing day, after which our two lovers, now completely happy, returned their thanks to Donna Victoria and myself, and set out with their mother for Lisbon.
END of the FIRST VOLUME.
VOL. II.
LONDON:
 I.
A country mission ; several diverting incidents relating thereto. A description of the missionaries.
I STAID a few days longer at Donna Victoria's, when calling to mind our missionaries, whom the story of Henriquez and Constance had almost put out of my head, I set forward for Massilia. I was greatly afraid they would have been gone before I could arrive there ; but Don Castilmoro, who was the curate of that place, had given them a fifteen days Sabbath to get their sermons by heart in, and that he might give his parishioners more time to prepare for the mission.
No one could be more cordially received than I was by the licentiate ; but my presence was not quite so agreeable to the monks, who imagined I was come to do them an ill turn with their landlord. They were however much mistaken, and I was so far from intending any thing of the kind, that I should on the contrary have made use of all my interest, had there been a necessity for it, to procure them a good reception, but this was in no-wise the case, for Castilmoro was so prepossed in their favour, that he looked upon them as angels come down from heaven, or at least as a set of new apostles whom God had sent to preach the gospel to his parishioners, who indeed stood in great need of it. He therefore, in my presence, made over all his power and authority ecclesiastical to them ; only reserving to himself (out of a ridiculous and wretched affectation of humility) the honour of serving them at the altar and at his own table. So extraordinary a beginning made me promise myself no small diversion : nor was I deceived, for the good licentiate entered upon his office that very evening, and waited on our angels while they were at supper, who acquitted themselves much better than Tobias's angel did at Raguel's. Our honest landlord had full employment, and though his arms were pretty strong, yet he found himself obliged to have recourse to his servants to assist him in placing and removing the dishes.
It seemed as if they had waited my arrival to enter upon the mission, which was opened the very next morning with ringing of bells, and the reading a mandate promising numberless indulgencies to all who should assist at it. This great privilege drew together not only all the villages for between twenty and thirty miles round : they flocked from all parts in such numbers, that we should speedily have had a
famine in the place had not the butchers, bakers, and innkeepers of the neighbouring towns, come in to our assistance : these brought others with them ; and amongst the rest several merchants with their different goods and trinkets ; so that all together made one of the completest and most elegant country fairs I had ever beheld.
The reading of the mandate was followed by a solemn procession, in which was carried with great pomp and image of the Virgin as big as life. It was of massy pewter, and cast by Castilmoro himself ; who had for that purpose obliged his parishioners to bring in all their plates, dishes, and spoons, even their very shoe-buckles. This superb image was carried on the shoulders of twelve of the stoutest country fellows that could be picked out, drest like priests, and walking with all the state and gravity of so many bishops, to the noise of drums, trumpets, fifes, and other instruments. The procession made the circuit of the parish in great pomp ; after which a Te Deum was sung, and the whole concluded with giving out the sermon and lecture for the afternoon.
The latter part of the day was as diverting to me as the first part had been serious. I got to the church betimes, and stationed myself in such a manner that nothing that passed could escape me : I was placed in the center between the pulpit and the stage ; for so I think I may call it, considering the use the monks made of it, and that a scaffolding had been purposely raised for them. And now our missionaries appeared : the set out with striking up a Veni Creator, to call down the inspiration of the holy spirit upon them ; but they had much better have invoked the assistance of common sense, which they seemed greatly to want, as will presently appear.
Of four missionaries that made their appearance at first, three vanished for some time, so that one only was left on the stage ; and he mounting the rostrum began to hold forth in a discourse against sin. He took occasion to touch upon Free Will, which he said was absolutely necessary to constitute sin. But as it is much easier to conceive than define this prerogative of the soul, he was strangely puzzled about it; and entangled himself in such a manner, that he must infallibly have given up the point had not his brethren come to his assistance.
I cannot say whether the scene that followed was an impromptu, or had been previously concerted between themselves ; but never in my life did I behold any thing more truly comic, than the farce they exhibited upon this occasion. In order I suppose to give us a clearer conception of what the preacher had been saying to us, one of the monks coming upon the scaffold mounts a rope that was stretched from one end of the church to the other, and puts himself in balance on it : as soon as he was mounted, his two comrades entered, the one dressed like an angel, the other like a devil, and placed themselves on each side of him.
So odd and unaccountable a spectacle could not fail of drawing the eyes of all the congregation upon the performers ; but what most caught the attention of the people was, the dexterity of the monk in keeping himself steady on the rope, notwithstanding the violent shakes and pulls that his comrades gave him, sometimes on one side, sometimes on the other : the preacher all the while crying out, "Admire, admire, my children, the great virtue of the equilibrium! Behold here a true emblem of man's free-will. In vain would all the powers of heaven and hell endeavour to incline it to either side ; all their attempts would prove fruitless, so long as free-will, which is the true counterpoise of the soul, did not give the preference to one more than the other. This must be the state of man before he can be truly guilty of sin.
If it happens that he is not in exact equilibrium, but rather inclines to the side of evil, the sin he commits ought not to be imputed to him ; because God is obliged to make up by a portion of his grace what is wanting to man to be in the just mean, otherwise the evil he commits cannot be looked upon in the light of sin, because he is no longer to be accounted free. This you see here represented before your eyes in this good soul, who so strongly resists the efforts of the two spirits which are soliciting it. You see it at present appears indifferent to them both ; but should it give the preference to one, it will to the good spirit, as that to which it finds the most natural propensity in itself."
But it soon appeared that our preacher had not the gift of prophecy, for as he was uttering these words, the devil gave his comrade upon the rope such a violent shake, that in spite of the boasted counter poise of free-will, he made his nose touch the ground, to the no small diversion of all present, who could not forbear laughing heartily at the accident. But this in no-wise cooled their devotion ; on the contrary, the preacher laid hold of it to set before them the weakness and infirmity of human nature, and the great necessity they were under of making intercession with God to support them in the hour of temptation : and no sooner was the sermon ended, than I saw them running in crouds to a little office that had been purposely erected at the lower end of the church, where sat one of the monks with a great book to enter the names of such as were desirous of having masses said for them : by this scheme the missionaries got a good round sum of money.
But however prophane and indecent this manner of preaching might appear to me, the good fathers found their account so well in it, that they resolved to continue it ; and the next day presented us with a repetition of the same farce, which brought them in between seven and eight hundred ducats more. And now finding their collections come in so fast, they did not choose to suffer them to amount to any very considerable sum without coming to an account, lest, if they should make any one of their company their cashier, he might be induced to play them a slippery trick, and make off with the booty. The monks are in general very well acquainted with one another's principles : accordingly they took each of them a share a-piece, and presented the fifth to Castilmoro, to reimburse him the expence he had been at in entertaining them at his house.
This supply came in very good time to the licentiate ; for, at our return to the parsonage-house, we found a considerable increase of company, of which I imagine he would rather have been quit. These were Donna Cameria, that eternal talker whom I have mentioned before, with three other ladies, all very pretty, but with the air of most finished coquettes. The croud of people that had been drawn together by the mission had made lodgings very scarce, which had induced Donna Cameria to bring her company with her to the licentiate's, who was her intimate acquaintance.
He received them with all the civility and heartiness imaginable ; but our reverend fathers of the mission far outdid him, for they carried their civilities even to a degree of gallantry ; and I soon perceived that the eyes of these pretended saints were not blind to exterior charms. What a curious sight is an amorous monk! surely the most diverting that can be to a man of the world. I had had a little specimen of it before in Father Pancracio ; but nothing in comparison of what I now saw. I could not forbear laughing at this comedy, and especially at the affectedness and reserve of the ladies, who did every thing in their power to draw their reverend inamoratos on, and make as complete fools of them as possible.
In the meantime, Castilmoro tho' he had made a shew of such hearty welcome to his guests, found himself not a little embarrassed by them, as not knowing where to find beds, having resigned all his to the missionaries. He imparted his perplexity to me : Indeed, said I, this is a great matter to be uneasy about ; have you not a barn? that and a few wisps of straw will do the business. The fathers are accustomed to lie hard, so it will appear nothing new to them. Ay, but, replied he, don't you think they will take it ill to be sent out of the house into a barn? No, no, said I, leave that to me. If I may judge by their eyes, they would think nothing too much to oblige the ladies we have here. In short, it was agreed that the monks should lie in the barn, and Castilmoro commissioned me to acquaint them with it.
When we returned back to the company, we found our missionaries busied with the rest at cards till supper-time. Mighty well, said I to myself, the poor people's masses are likely to fly now. But I was deceived in my conjectures, for the game went greatly against the ladies all the evening, which put the monks into such good humour, that I laid hold of the opportunity to open my commission to them, which they immediately came into with the greatest readiness and compliance.
The plentiful cheer, and the chit-chat of the women, kept us so long at supper, that it was near midnight before we parted. I took charge of conducting the monks to their new apartments ; where, having given them plenty of good clean straw, I left them to sleep as well as they could, and returned back to the house with an intention of retiring to bed.
 II.
A company of players arrive at Maslilia. What happened to the missionaries in the barn. A picture of the Licentiate Castilmoro.
I WAS just entering the house when I heard the noise of dancing at some little distance ; it was a company of strollers and musicians come from Lamego, who hearing that there was a great fair in our town, had stopt by the way in order to give us a small specimen of their art. Seeing some of the actresses very pretty, I entered into the dance with them, and then taking aside the person who appeared to be the master of the company, I inquired whether they proposed to make any stay at Massilia. He answered me, that they should stay no longer than there was a little money to be got. If so, said I, it may be perhaps worth your while to stop a little, for we have one company of players already in the town, of a different kind from yours, who have found means to squeeze our purses pretty well ; for my part, I will certainly come and see you play. But where do you lodge ? As it was very late before we got in here, replied the stage hero, we have not as yet had time to fix upon any place : besides we have been told that it will be almost impossible to get any lodgings ; therefore I should be extremely obliged to you, Signor, if you could tell me of any place where I might carry my company to upon occasion.
The oddness of the encounter, together with this last speech, put a thought into my head, which though, strictly speaking, not very charitable, yet appeared to me a very proper method of punishing our monks for the airs of gallantry, and freedom they had taken with our ladies. I thereupon answered the master of the company, that all that was in my power to do for him was to make him the offer of a barn that I had at my disposal. He very readily accepted of it, and as his whole company were fatigued with their journey, he begged me to be so good to shew him the way to it. Upon which I immediately conducted them to the barn, the door of which was to be shut only by means of a secret spring, which I shewed them ; and then taking my leave of them pretended to retire. This I did the better to observe the reception these new lodgers would meet with from the missionaries.
I was a good deal surprised to find every thing quite quiet on their sides for a considerable time ; as for the players they made noise enough ; but the good fathers had drank to plentifully the whole evening, that it was no easy matter to waken them. However, the players having done talking, and beginning to grow sleepy, threw themselves down in the straw ; and now the scene I had promised myself began in the following manner :
One of the actresses going to lie down, unluckily threw herself upon a missionary, who being awakened by her falling on him, put out his hand to feel what it was. The girl, affrighted to find herself so suddenly seized by a man, gave a great scream, which wakened the other three monks, and at the same time put all the players in alarm, who immediately ran to the girl to know what was the matter with her. As they were forced to grope out their way, it happened that one of them laid hold of the beard of one of the missionaries, who in his fright was endeavouring to get out at the door. The player taking him for one of his comrades, What the devil are you mad, says he, to dress yourself up in this manner, are you going to play the part of Chalcas? pray thee go to sleep and let the wench alone. By Momus, cries the second, who had got hold of another of the missionaries, I think we are come to be in a masquerade
all night : come, come, Ragotin, pull off thy domine, we have had dancing enough. By my faith, said a third, I think this is the place where all the witches of the town keep their Sabbath, for I have hold of one here that is turned into a goat, but the devil fetch me if I let him escape till-Hold, gentlemen, cried the master of the company, interrupting them, these are perhaps the rascally country-strollers that the gentleman was just now telling us of, who have picked up all the money that we thought to have got here. Please heaven we will pay them well for it : I warrant me they shall not be in a condition to play for this one fortnight at least.
While the manager was thus haranguing his company, the monks were doing all in their power to get out of the hands of the players. It happened that in the scuffle one of them gave his adversary such a box on the ear, as made the barn ring again. This was as a signal to the fight. The player finding himself struck, gave a great cry, and calling to his comrades, gentlemen, said he, these are certainly the scoundrels his theatrical majesty has been speaking of. At these words he threw himself upon the monk and beat him almost to a mummy, calling out all the while to his companions to treat the others in the same manner.
And now the barn ecchoed with the most dismal yells and screams, especially from the women, whom you would have sworn were going to be murdered : so that I began to be afraid lest my comedy should have a tragical catastrophe. In this apprehension I was just going to open the door, and part the combatants, when I saw the players all rush out in a body. By Ćsculapius, said one of them, if these rascals have taken the bread out of our mouths, they have paid pretty dear for it : they'll not be in a condition to play again for one week I'll warrant them ; so, friends, it will be best for us to lay hold of this opportunity, and as soon as it is day to go and take up our licences before the affair comes to be known.
These last words redoubled my apprehension. I made towards the door, intending to go in and offer my assistance to the monks ; but then reflecting that if I shewed my face they would certainly take it to be a trick of my playing them, I contented myself with listening to hear if they gave any signs of life ; when I was soon put out of my pain by the voice of one of the batter'd saints, who, in a faint voice, said to his comrades ; by St. Francis, these devils have given me most hellish treatment ; I am beaten to a jelly. Ah we richly deserve it, said another, was it only for making such a mock of religion as we did the other day with our equilibrium. It was certainly the devil himself whose shape you wore that came to revenge himself on us : I am only surprised that he did not twist all our necks, and carry us away to hell with him. I was mightily delighted at the good father's credulity, and found that fear makes monks religious as well as other people. My mind was now at ease, as I was sure that excepting some few bruises extraordinary, every thing had succeeded to my wish ; so I returned softly to the house, and going up to my chamber flung myself down on the bed.
But I was not suffered to remain long there ; for the ladies who had not slept the whole night, for a reason that I will leave the reader to guess, were at my door by day-break to call me up. I was obliged in civility to obey the summons, and rise. Castilmoro seeing us stirring so early, thought it had been the effect of devotion ; for which he greatly commended us, and ordered a good breakfast to be served in, to keep up our spirits, as he said, during the time we should stay at church.
We were hardly sat down to table when we were joined by the missionaries. Their pale
countenances, swelled eyes, and the black and blue marks upon their faces, immediately struck the licentiate, who asked them in a great surprise, who had put them in that condition ? The devils, they said, have been tormenting us all night. Satan enraged to find that we were going to snatch from him the souls of the poor country people whom he had made sure of for his own, let loose a whole thousand of his imps upon us, who have used us in the manner you see.
Tho' no one was more at the bottom of the affair than myself, yet I affected the greatest surprise : See ladies, said I, with an air of astonishment, see what lengths the cursed fiend carries his diabolical malice to oppose the progress of these reverend fathers ; and alas ! it is a melancholy consideration that he should have so well succeeded ; for, added I, addressing myself to the missionaries, it is impossible for you in your present condition to continue your apostolic labours ; it would be giving too much scope to evil and licentious tongues, who will not scruple to say, that these marks of violence came from some other cause ; therefore, for the honour of the church, and the ease of your own bodies, I think you had best abstain from your functions for some few days.
Tho' Castilmoro was sensible that this would bring the whole weight of the mission upon his shoulders, yet he could not forbear acknowledging that I was in the right ; and it was accordingly concluded that they should not preach till they could appear abroad without scandal. However, as their zeal would not permit them to remain altogether idle, they resolved to employ their time in hearing confessions : they accordingly shut themselves up in their boxes, and so prevented all occasion of scandal.
The fathers had scarce left the house, when we saw the manager of the company enter with some of the principal performers. He was come to wait on the licentiate from the lord of the manor to ask his leave for himself and company to play in the town. Any other clergyman would have been greatly scandalized at a visit of this kind ; but Castilmoro was not one of those rigid churchmen who are enemies to pleasure, and damn all theatrical diversions, and those that frequent them ; he had been a great follower of them himself before he was presented to his living, and had imbibed such a taste for them, that he had sent for a complete set of puppets purposely to divert his parishioners with on holy days. The players, who had been informed of this anecdote in the village, did not fail to compliment him upon his taste, promising to use their utmost endeavours to deserve his approbation, as well as that of the audience.
The most indifferent talents are always accompanied with some degree of self-love, this made Castilmoro take the compliment paid him by the players, as a panegyric upon his taste, which was at best but weak, and even ridiculous in a man of his profession ; he accordingly granted them full liberty to exhibit their shews : he even went farther, for, finding himself burthened with the whole weight of the mission, for that day at least, if not for several others, he thought it rather too much to bear, and bethought himself of a scheme truly worthy of the genius of the contrivers ; this was to inquire of the players whether among all their theatrical stock they had not some religious play. O ay, replied the manager, that we have, several ; there's The Death of Arius, a most edifying tragi-comedy, tho' somewhat clumsy in its catastrophe, then we have Balaam's Ass, or the Ignorant Preacher, a comedy frequently exhibited in our best cacerdis ; and then again The Visionaries, or The Gaulish Inquisitors ; and The Heretic per Force, with The Stigmata of St. Mary d'Agreda, a piece of five acts, with as many
bloody catastrophes--Now you mention stigmata, said I, interrupting him, pray have you not those of Catharine of Provence ? you would oblige us greatly to give us this, as there is something new and very entertaining in the story. I know what you mean, said the buskin, it is a tragi-comedy that has made a great noise lately among the Gauls, chiefly on account of the extraordinary manner of its unraveling that which is without example. Don Chaduno, who worked up the story, was himself surprised at it ; but this piece has never been translated into our tongue ; however, we are promised a translation of it by the confessor of a great prince, till which time we must wait with patience. This will be a work of great edification to youth, especially as there will be so strict a regard paid to truth.
But have you nothing to give us in the mean time ? said Castilmoro. Doubtless we have, answered the player. We have Harlequin turned Wag, The new Tarquin, The Lady-Doctor, or Divinity in Petticoats, The Bankruptcy of Miracles, The--Hold, hold, said the licentiate, this last will do, as it is both excellent and new. Are you perfect in your parts ? Why, it is not above a week, replied the manager, since the patriarch made us play it before him and his seminarists at his country-house. O then, said Castilmoro, it cannot choose but be excellent, therefore make yourselves ready for playing it this very evening ; I will engage you shall have an handsome audience, and will besides take care to see you satisfied myself.
 III.
Story of a young licentiate duped by the women. Shews given by Castilmoro. Unravelling of the tragi-comedy. A notable piece of roguery to which the author was witness.
THE players took their leave, highly pleased with Castilmoro, who on his side was no less delighted with them ; and after they were gone left us to go and call over some of his old discourses. We made an end of our breakfast, and then I waited on the ladies to the fair ; where, as the custom is, I was obliged to do that which cost me about two ducats ; but it did not fare so well with a young licentiate whom we happened to meet with there.
This was one of those church-civet-cats that run after the women as they do after a benefice. He had riggled himself into a very handsome living by means of some base compliances, and the interest of one of the ladies in company, whom I heard afterwards he gratified with a pension of fifty ducats : as soon as he spied her out, he darted thro' the croud to come at us ; but not without greatly discomposing the folds of his cassock, and disordering the whole ?conomy of his curls, which put him in so violent a rage, that we thought he would every moment knock done some one or another of the country people.
The sight of the ladies somewhat calmed his fury, and his countenance was on a sudden changed into an air of the utmost sweetness and complacency : he made them a thousand compliments upon their looks, in hopes of meeting with a like return from them, in which they did not fail to gratify him. He then began to bite his lips, to make them red and pouting, and drew his mouth up into so many different forms while he was speaking, that he was perfectly ridiculous, as well as by the shrugging up of his shoulders, and the various contortions he threw his body into, in saluting every one that passed him : and being very desirous that we should suppose him to have a general acquaintance in the country, he was every moment turning about to salute every one that appeared tolerably well dressed.
The women soon knew their man from this sample, and began to ask him what brought him to the fair. My good fortune, ladies, said he, who knew I should have the happiness of meeting you here, and a purchase I wanted to make of two fine horses to add to my chariot : I was just going to pay the money for them, but shall not stir now till I have done myself the pleasure of making you some little present-Here, Mr. Shopkeeper, continued he, turning to one of the tradesmen, shew these ladies some of your most fashionable goods, and never trouble your head about the price. The shopkeeper hearing this, immediately spread before us whatever he had of most curious and valuable. The ladies each of them pitched upon what she liked best, purely, as they had said, not to disoblige signor licentiate. I could not help admiring the stupidity of one, and the boldness of the others ; but I have learnt since that this is a common custom with what we call well-bred women. They returned their reverend beau a great many thanks for his civility, and he got a few curtsies in return for all the expense he had been at.
We had not got twenty yards from him before the women began to laugh at him for his folly and stupidity. I could not help expressing my astonishment at such a proceeding. I think, said I, to one of them, the honest gentleman has no reason to be much pleased with this encounter ; if I am not mistaken, you have lightened his purse pretty well for him. Oh, answered one of the ladies, he is sadly off truly ; what, can he think to take his jaunts for nothing, or does he imagine that we are to stand to listen to all
his nonsense and impertinence without being satisfied for our trouble : besides, it is the goods of the church, so we have nothing to reproach ourselves with ; these gentry come to easily by their money for there to be any scruple in sharing it with them.
While we were thus entertaining ourselves at the charge of the poor licentiate, I saw a troop of sbirris* advancing hastily towards the place where we had left him, settling accounts with the merchant. This made me suspect there had happened some dispute between them. To satisfy myself, I left my company, and soon found that my conjectures were but too true. I found them both so incensed that they were every moment ready to fall together by the ears. But the shopkeeper, like a prudent and knowing man, in order to make sure of his debtor, had sent for the guard, who came up at that instant, and began to inquire what was the matter. The matter, said the shopkeeper, is only to make me get my money of this sharper here, who has bought my goods, and wants to carry them off without paying me what they are worth. The licentiate acknowledged the debt, but then insisted upon having justice of that scoundrel of a tradesman, who, he said, had the impudence to ask him fifty ducats for a scarf, a toilet, a pair of ear-rings, a necklace, and a pair of bracelets. Why, is that so very much for a gentleman like you to pay ? replied the officer ; you would not have come off for as much again if you had had to deal with some bishops ; besides being condemned to a few years banishment to learn you how to dispose of the poor's patrimony in this manner.
This wise remonstrance had no effect upon the licentiate, who still continued to refuse payment. But the officer having given orders to conduct him to prison, he at length found himself obliged to come down, and told out to the shopkeeper the fifty ducats, which he had laid by to purchase his coach-horses, which he was no obliged to do without for some time.
I returned to the ladies as soon as I had seen an end of the affair, and found them in very good company. They had met with the lord of the manor, and several other persons of their acquaintance, whose company being more agreeable to them than that of Castilmoro and his missionaries, they readily agreed to a proposal he made them of not parting during their stay. But as there would have been great unpoliteness in leaving the licentiate so abruptly after his genteel reception of them, they agreed to return, and pass the remainder of the day at his house.
We continued at the fair till it was time to go to church, where we promised ourselves somenew scene of diversion from Castilmoro and his comedians. However, we met with nothing for that time but a tedious declamation which he made against a certain new saint lately started up, to whom he seemed to have no great liking. He concluded his tiresome harangue with a benediction, and then dismissed us with a promise of presenting us with some wonderful things in the afternoon.
After such a promise you may think we did not fail of repairing to the church, which was filled very early ; so that in all probability I should have been heartily tired of waiting, but for a fight which served to divert me a little, and in which I should certainly have taken still more pleasure, had not the reputation of our holy religion been too much concerned in it : this was no other than our missionaries shut up in their confessionals with their hands constantly stretched out, to give their benedictions to the poor ignorant country people, who came in crouds to cast themselves at their feet. These reverend zealots had been so taken up with this employment, that they had not had time to think of dining. A
*Sbirris are under-officers of justice like our constibles.
strange thing that ! and what would appear incredible to any one who did not know that a monk's avarice will get the better of his gluttony. The money that was given by every one who came to confess, and which was thrown into a little box fastened to the side of the confessional for that purpose, had put all thoughts of eating out of their heads, nor did they suffer Castilmoro's sermon to put a moment's stop to this lucrative function.
The licentiate mounting the rostrum, began in a very elaborate and edifying discourse against the vice of calumny ; in which he undertook the defence of a certain monk of his order, who had not been able to escape the censure of evil tongues, notwithstanding, as he told us, his whole fraternity were ready to witness to the holiness and purity of his life. He then proceeded to enumerate the many bad things that had been said of him ; and to make us more sensible of the melancholy effects of this vice, he declared that it cost the brethren of his order an immense sum to repair his reputation, which had been thus cruelly wounded ; and this comes, says he, addressing himself to his hearers, of your abusive and licentious tongues ; you imagine that a chance word, or an idle tale, be it true or false, can be attended with no consequences ; full of this you are always ready to divert yourselves at the expense of a priest ; and the world, which is naturally wicked, and has no affection for our cloth, listen greedily to all the ill you can say of it, and even take a pleasure in spreading such evil reports, till at length they reach the ears of the magistrate, who takes the affair in hand, and then forsooth the whole body must pay for your talking.
I was utterly at a loss what to make of this curious apostrophe of the licentiate's, but in the end I had it cleared up to me.
Castilmoro had no sooner dismissed us than we found ourselves accosted by three or four of the comedians who pressed us mightily to enter their booth, assuring us that we should see something no less edifying than curious. We did not take long intreaty, but went in with them ; and the country people having heard that the shew was to be given gratis, pushed in such crouds that the place, tho' a prodigious large barn, was in an instant as full as it could hold.
The farce, however did not begin till Castilmoro came, who was gone to take some little refreshment after his apostolic fatigues. As soon as he was entered and had taken his seat, the curtain drew up, and they began by giving us a true school-boy's piece, tho' they would have palmed it upon us for the masterpiece of a celebrated professor of the college of Jesuits.
It was nevertheless very well received by Castilmoro, who was lavish in his applause, in which he was seconded by the greatest part of his parishioners. As a further mark of his approbation he presented the performers with a purse of money, which they refused, as thinking of themselves sufficiently paid by the permission he had granted them of diverting the public with their exhibitions. The musicians, not willing to be outdone in their generosity, as soon as the piece was over gave us a grand concerto gratis. The musick was some of the roughest I ever heard ; however, Castilmoro made a sufficient apology for that by informing us that it was composed for the Chinese by a monk of his order, who was one of the first who undertook the conversion of those infidels ; and in order to insure himself success, had begun by exhibiting theatrical pieces among them, which he set to music himself.
When this piece was over, we had a masque and a chorus ; the music of which was not quite so insupportable as the former. I shall say nothing of the words, as I was not able to hear any thing of them
for the shouts and claps of the country people, who thought themselves transported into paradise. By which I could learn from what little reached me, the subject of the piece was the apotheosis of one Don John Gidra, whose virtues they were reciting ; religion, eloquence, and chastity, made his panegyric, and they exhorted the people to join with them in joy for his canonization. This little piece was closed by a ballet performed by women dancers, representing the virtues, who acquitted themselves extremely ill.
And now the scenery being intirely changed, we were presented with a tomb, from whence issued a kind of monster representing luxury : this fury having invoked all the infernal powers to his assistance, we saw them come forth from different parts of the stage, and offer their services to him ; and, as it appeared, just in the nick of time ; for the very instant that the monster was giving them his orders, there arose from the same tomb a machine in the form of a cloud, surrounded with a glory, and rising up by degrees to the middle of the stage.
In this machine was a phantom, all black, supported and surrounded by little Cupids, whom the ignorant country people took for angels : Luxury no sooner perceived this machine than he advanced with his train to oppose the ascent of this demi-god to heaven. He reproached him to his face with the vices he had been guilty of, named the virgins he had seduced, enumerated the sacrileges he had committed, and concluded by commanding the furies to pull him from his throne, and hurl him headlong into hell.
His orders would have been immediately put into execution but for a troop of black specters, who, suddenly issuing from under the stage, came to the assistance of their distressed brother ; they formed themselves into a ballet-dance together, which ended in a battle between the specters and the furies. The fight was obstinate, and I do not know how it would have ended, had not heaven interposed to separate them. On a sudden we saw a thunderbolt hurled from the top of the theatre ; but whether for want of address, or whether it was done thro' malice I cannot determine, the fuse that should have fallen on the fiends, unfortunately fell on the hero of the piece, and set his robe all in a blaze ; from whence the flames communicated themselves in an instant to the canvas that formed the clouds ; so that the poor wretch found himself quite surrounded with fire and smoke, and must certainly have been burnt alive, had not the fire luckily burnt asunder the ropes that held the machine, which fell down with him upon two of his companions, whom it almost killed ; and the demi-god himself broke some of his ribs in the fall. Castilmoro thinking him killed, ran instantly to him ; but the buskin, instead of calling upon God, damned and swore like an heathen, giving the whole order to the devil, and the monk who had put him upon performing the part.
I imagined that this accident had intirely stopt the piece, at which I was not very well pleased ; but a person who sat next to me, and who had formerly been acquainted with the monk there represented, assured me, that it was the true and natural peripetia of his history : but Castilmoro and the country people were sadly down in the mouth at this unfortunate catastrophe, and made a collection among them to set the wounded heroes upon their feet again ; when it came to the missionaries to contribute their part, whether thro' avarice or a spirit of revenge, they could not be prevailed upon to advance a single denier ; and yet these reverend cutpurses had made their market very decently that day, for they had not suffered a single sin to pass muster, without having first paid handsomely for its passport.
Castilmoro seemed greatly shocked at their hard-heartedness ; but he would have been still more so, had he been witness to the villainous trick that I saw them play a worthy man, who was so unfortunate to put a confidence in them. This man was steward to Don Pompejo, lord of the manor of Massilia, the management of whose affairs he had in his hands for upwards of twenty years, in which he had not acquitted himself so scrupulously, but that his conscience would from time to time give him some little hints, not very agreeable to him ; and these had increased considerably since the arrival of the fathers of the mission. An extraordinary circumstance this ! that it should please heaven to make use of such a set of wretches to awaken the heart to virtue ; but every thing is turned to good in the hands of the Almighty ; and it is often seen that the most unworthy instruments contribute to the great designs of his mercy and goodness ; and this was the case in the story before us.
This steward being desirous of opening his mind to the missionaries, came to our house, and applied himself to me as the first person he met, to introduce him into the apartment of one in particular, whom he named to me. The air of penitence and contrition he wore, his quality of steward, and above all his pockets, which seemed wonderfully loaded made me suspect that there was some restitution going forward. In this persuasion I shewed him into a room to which these holy mountebanks had given the name of the exchequer chamber, where we found them busied in dividing the spoils of the day. As soon as they perceived us, him whom the steward had named to me, came up to him, and taking him aside into a little closet just by, shut themselves in that they might confer together without interruption.
My curiosity had been too much awakened, and I knew the genius of the monks too well, to let a scene of this kind escape me. Accordingly I went as softly as possible into my own chamber, which was separated from the closet in which they were locked up only by a very thin partition, and that badly joined ; so that I could see and hear almost every thing that passed. I soon found that matters were as I had suspected ; the steward was no sooner got into the closet than he pulled out of his pockets four large bags full of gold, and putting them into the monk's hands, threw himself at his feet. The severity of the missionary was not proof against this dazzling metal, of which however he was only to be the trustee ; for the steward begged him with many earnest intreaties to restore that sum to his master ; but in such a manner that it might not be known to come from him. The monk promised faithfully to do what he requested of him ; and after a short exhortation to be more faithful for the future, he dismissed his penitent much lighter in conscience and pocket than when he came to him.
Every thing hitherto went as it should do, but I had a strange suspicion that the priest's avarice would not let it stop here. Accordingly, he was no sooner left alone than he began to empty the bags, one by one, and examine their contents. The sight of so much gold, which he already longed to be in full possession of, threw him into a kind of extasy, and prevented him for some time from thinking that he might possibly be overheard. Ah ! what a glorious stroke might here be struck ! cried he in the first sally of his transports--two thousand five hundred and seventy-seven ducats ! how nobly this sum would set up us poor devils of monks--It would be worth an hundred missions to us : and what should hinder us from making use of what fortune has thus thrown in our way ? as for Don Pompejo, to whom it is to be restored, he does not want it, since his affairs have gone on hitherto as well without it : besides, it is part of his superfluities, and as such ought to be given to the poor ; therefore he cannot if he would receive it again, as it properly belongs to us, as the chief of the poor ; this point is incontestably decided by
Busembullum.
In consequence of this fine reasoning, the monk was about to carry the money into the exchequer chamber, and deposit it there for the good of the community, when stopping short--Fair and softly, said he ; what reason have I to share this with my comrades ? What part can they claim in it ? Am I not wholly indebted to my own industry for this lucky hit ? -- Doubtless I am ; but then we entered into an agreement at our first association to share equally in the good or bad fortune that should befall us--May be so ; but surely it would be great injustice that I should not have somewhat more than the rest--So, there's for my trouble ; in saying which he locked up two of the bags, and went to seek out his companions to share the rest with them.
As soon as these venerable thieves had done dividing their booty, they joined the company who were diverting themselves at cards till supper-time. The ladies were not more fortunate this day, than they had been the preceding evening, when they played against the monks ; which these latter seeing, it gave them a strong inclination to try their luck a second time. The ladies were at first against admitting them ; but it was no sooner agreed to, and they had taken their seats, than the fortune of the day changed intirely, and the saints purses bled plentifully. After supper was over, they demanded their revenge, which was granted them ; but luck still continued to run against them, and the more they lost, the more eager they were for play, till at length they were stript of all their own money, and that which the steward had lately intrusted them with, into the bargain.
 IV.
The perfidy of the monk Pancracio.
I WAS awakened in the morning by the noise of the bells, which I cursed a thousand times ; however as I was not to be at the general communion that was to be given that day, I endeavoured to compose myself to rest again, in order to repair the fatigues of the foregoing night ; but finding it utterly impossible I got up and went down stairs, where I was agreeably surprised to find my uncle Don Antonio, who on his side was no less delighted to see me, having been in great anxiety on my account, occasioned by a new scene that had happened to Atouega, since my departure. As there is something very singular in this adventure, and that it seems to shew how far the treachery and villainy of a monk will carry him, I fancy the reader will not be displeased at my giving him an account of it.
Scarce had Constantia, D. Hentiques, and myself, left the inn, when it was surrounded by a party of soldiers with signor Pancracio at their head ; they laid hold on the landlord, and threatened to carry him instantly to prison, unless he forthwith delivered up to them two gentlemen and a hermit, who were then in his house. The landlord, without being in the least disconcerted, made answer, that they had one of them already in their power (pointing to the monk) and as for the others, he added, it was not in his power to deliver them up, because they had left his house some time before, and he did not know which road they had taken : the alcaide, thinking this was an excuse of the landlord, gave him in charge to two of his men, and having posted others at every door and avenue of the house, he took the rest with him to assist in making a strict search ; but after having visited every hole and corner, without being able to meet with what they looked for (at which they were not a little enraged, as Pancracio, to encourage them, had assured them, that they would find a great quantity of money) they returned to where they had left the innkeeper, whom they endeavoured to intimidate, by telling him that they would accuse him in the name of the holy inquisition, for having given harbour to two ravishers who had carried off a nun.
Odso, why did you not tell me this at first, replied the innkeeper with great coolness, you would have saved yourselves a great deal of trouble and me too, for I could directly have found you what you are in search of ; there, says he, pointing to Pancracio, there's your man ; and what is more, I must acquaint you that this worthy gentleman, who has accused others of the rape in question, is himself a monk in disguise, who I suppose despairing of enjoying the fruit of his crime, has a mind to ruin those who were the authors of his disappointment : the other two persons you are in search of, met here by mere accident, and did not come in till near two hours after one another ; they dined together, and afterwards carried the nun off with them without my knowing what road they have taken ; the only conjecture I can form about the matter from what I heard them say, is, that they are going to put her into the hands of a lady of honour and virtue, who will take care to see her restored to her parents.
The confusion that appeared in Pancracio's countenance at these last words, gave the alcaide a suspicion, that he was himself the author of the crime he wanted to punish others for ; and immediately ordered his guard to lay hold of him, which they did, and upon searching him, found a great deal of gold in his pockets, which they applied to their own use ; they even took from him his very pocket-book, in hopes of meeting with some bills of exchange ; but they found only two letters, one from the pretended
countess of Mascarenez, in which that honourable lady engaged to deliver him up the lovely nun with whom he was enamoured ; and another from an apostate monk who had fled into the kingdom of Algarva, from whence he wrote to Pancracio, that he had furnished apartments for him and the fair Constantia, his intended spouse.
Tho' these proofs were more than sufficient, yet the alcaide did not content himself with them ; but out of the extreme desire he had to find the monk still more guilty, or rather to enrich himself more by his spoils, he immediately ran with some of his guard to Pancracio's chaise, behind which were his portmanteau and trunks, which they soon broke open, and found them full of bags of ducats, and a great quantity of church-plate, which the sacrilegious monster had stolen and broke into pieces for the more easy conveyance : the bags were presently emptied, and the contents shared, and the plate would have undergone the same treatment, had not the fear of committing sacrilege, which might subject them to the inquiry of the inquisition, stopt their hands : these therefore they set a-part as unanswerable proofs of the apostacy and villany of this monk, who was immediately handcuffed, and carried to the prison of Villaleda. The alcaide then set out with a party of his men to scour the country in search of us ; but without success.
Ambrose, who had been witness to this adventure, was so frightened at it, that he made it his first business to run back and acquaint Don Antonio with all the particulars. One may easily guess at the anxiety he was under for near a fortnight, that he was without hearing any thing from me : this silence made him apprehensive that I had fallen into the hands of the alcaide and his people, and it was partly to satisfy himself with this particular, that he had taken this journey to Massilia ; and no works can paint the joy he expressed at finding how well I had extricated myself from that affair. Castilmoro was ready to shew the share he took in his satisfaction, by ordering a good breakfast to be set before him ; and as he could not stay to keep him company himself, that forenoon, he contented himself with desiring me to take his place, and very heartily exhorted my uncle to recruit his spirits by a chearful glass.
Don Antonio was never very curious about sermons, and I on my part began to be heartily tired of them ; so that we let them ring in at the missionaries without stirring from table, where we did the best in our power to lay in a stock of spirits for them. We could not however continue our employment so long as we would have done, for the servants being all of them gone to church on account of some extraordinary indulgencies that were to be granted that day, it happened that one of them had taken the key of the cellar with him in his pocket, which obliged us to stop short at the sixth bottle, the whole stock that was left in the beaufet. This accident violently exasperated Don Antonio, who by this time was entered pretty far into business ; he swore and laid about him like a madman, cursing the monks and their indulgencies, whom he said were not all together worth a single flaggon of wine.
In order to quiet him a little I proposed his going with me to the church, where we might perhaps meet with the fellow who had the care of the cellar. In a word, thirst made the good man do that which devotion could not ; we rose from table, and set out for the church ; we had not got ten yards from the house before we heard one of the fathers roaring against the great sinfulness of sin, as if he would tear his lungs to pieces. God a mercy gown, said Don Antonio, I think it rains nothing but sermons and preachers here ! Faith, I had much rather it would rain wine. What the devil signifies all this noise and bustle ? the people here will be never a white the better for it. That may be, said i, but the good fathers
purses will ; and this they are very sensible of by the little experience they have already had. Upon which I related to him all the tricks and impositions of theirs which I had been witness to, not forgetting to mention how finely they had been flung by the four females the night before ; at which the honest licentiate laughed very heartily.
 V.
A merry adventure that befel one of the missionaries while he was preaching. A solomn procession.
As Don Antonio had undertaken this journey to church on no other account than to get the key of the wine-cellar, he was for making the best of his way in immediately ; but the croud was so great that we could not even get within ten yards of the door. I never in my life saw a greater concourse of people ; they filled not only the church, but likewise a large square place that was before it. One of the monks who had got out of the church in order to make the people keep silence, that his brother within might be heard, was himself astonished at it. He found his apostolic zeal roused at the sight of such a numerous audience ; and as it was impossible for them to hear any thing that was said by the preacher within, a thought took him in his head that he would give them a sermon himself. Accordingly he mounted a little cart that happened to be standing there, and which a countryman had left to the care of his son, while he had gone into church to pick up a few indulgencies in his way.
The monk pitched upon this as a proper theatre for displaying his eloquence on, and began to hold forth on the second commandment. After an exordium ex abrupto, he shewed how unpardonable those were who took God's holy name in vain, and began to repeat all the oaths and imprecations common in the mouths of carmen ; of which he gave so exact a detail, that one would have been tempted to have taken him for one of those people himself : but the vehement zeal he shewed against such sort of crimes, had like to have cost him his life, for the horses that were in the cart, frightened at his violent cursing and swearing, and thinking they had five or six carmen at their heels, began to set out at full speed in the middle of the sermon, dragging the poor preacher along with them like another Hippolitus.
This accident so confounded all who were present, that not one of them thought of lending the poor devil the least assistance, tho' he roared out like one possessed : the noise he made only served to spirit up the horses more, who finding themselves without a driver, ran up and down in confusion without keeping in any one tract. The monk began now to be more afraid than ever, and clung with all his might to the sides of the cart ; but the sight of a stone-buttress which stood right in the way, and over which the horses seemed just preparing to carry him, made him loose his hold ; and the fear of being beat to pieces with the cart, determined him to throw himself out of it into a deep slough which was not two yards distant from the place, and which he thought himself very happy to meet with. Accordingly he
threw himself ; but his fall was so heavy, that he sunk up to his chin in mud, which drew on him the shouts and hallowing of the people, who had just before been admiring his eloquence.
Don Antonio was so highly delighted with this comical spectacle, that he forgot his thirst for some time : indeed, as it happened, he would not have had much time to have satisfied it in, for this scene was scarce over when it was succeeded by another, which tho' more serious in appearance, yet had a no less diverting ending. This was a solemn procession conducted with great order and decorum, which made me imagine that it had been concerted by the monks the night before among themselves. The retinue, which was a very numerous one, was divided into four classes ; the first composed of virgins, of which I never saw a greater number assembled together, and yet perhaps a few villages had less of them, and the second of the married women ; the young men made up the third, and the penitents closed the rear. This last class was the least numerous of the four.
The troop of virgins was headed by one of the ladies who had the day before so finely plumed our missionaries : she carried the cross, and had for supporters her two companions, each of them with a lighted taper in her hand. Tho' they had exerted all their art and colouring to shine forth on this occasion, I could not help remarking a certain air of weariness in them, and eyes that betrayed the want of sleep : this I was ready to attribute to the effects of devotion ; but I understood soon that they had sat up all the night before at a ball which Don Pompejo had given at his own house, and could not help making some reflections on so odd a contrast. Is it possible, said I to myself, that one can pass so easily from one extreme to another ? Or rather, can it be imagined that two such opposite things as devotion and a taste for worldly pleasures can be united in the same person ? certainly such notions are unknown to any but monks and women : the spirit of meanness and contradiction that is so prevalent in the one, and the love of gain that governs the others, is alone capable of producing such unaccountable effects.
They honoured me with a very low curtsy as they passed me, accompanied with a most bewitching smile. Donna Cameria headed the married women : and tho' she led only a troop of country dowdies, she marched with as much pride and state as a bishop in procession at the head of his clergy on a visitation day : she likewise honoured us with a curtesy, but not quite so low as the others had done : we returned the compliment in a proportionable manner, and staid to see the rest of the procession pass by. I had forgot to mention that the monks, in order to give a greater variety to the pageant, had mixed the different classes with each other, so that the young men followed immediately after the maids, and the penitents after the married women : these latter were followed by twelve stout fellows drawing a cross upwards of twenty-five cubits long, upon large casters. As it was extremely heavy they relieved each other by turns ; every one was eager to lay hold of the rope, on which the missionaries had strung a great number of indulgencies and pardons : behind this long and heavy machine came the licentiate Castilmoro, marching with all the majesty of a prelate, with one hand resting upon this figurative instrument of our salvation.
Tho' there was nothing edifying in this spectacle, yet it happened by an extraordinary chance to inspire Don Antonio with the spirit of devotion, who was one of those weak-minded men who are easily caught with mummeries of this kind. He now fell into the procession, which he accompanied in a very devout manner (I following him out of complaisance) to the church, where a high mass was celebrated on the occasion, at which, as I was informed by the sexton, upwards of 5793 persons communicated.
The pious missionaries dismissed us after this curious ceremony was over, giving us at the same time an invitation to attend a conference which was to be held that evening ; where, as they told us, we should be witness to such things as had never yet been heard or seen.
 VI.
The shortest in the book.
DON Antonio and I were now for making the best of our way back to the parsonage house ; but found ourselves stopt at the church-door by a prodigious croud of people who were gathered round two pilgrims, whose noble deportment, and genteel address, soon gave me to understand, that they were not of the common class of religious mendicants, who make a living by wandering up and down the countries, and abusing the credulity of the poor ignorant people. Notwithstanding my haste to be at home, I could not pass by without stopping to ask them some questions, which they answered with an air of politeness and good breeding, seldom to be found amongst people of their appearance. If I found myself charmed with their conversation, I was still more so at the sight of the youngest, who seemed to me at most not about seventeen : his beauty, and what was more, his excessive modesty, made me suspect, that there might be some mystery beneath this disguise, and that they were in fact very different people to what their dress bespoke them. The adventure of Pancracio and Constance now came into my mind, and I fancied this might be something of the like nature : full of this idea, and curious to be satisfied concerning the truth of my surmizes ; I intreated them very civilly to go along with us to the parsonage-house ; where, I said, I hoped to be able to procure them such refreshment as they might stand in need of after their fatigues.
After some little ceremonies, they consented to accept of my offer ; and being got clear of the croud, I conducted my new guests to Castilmoro's house, where we found him and my uncle Don Antonio (whose call of thirst had not permitted him to dance attendance upon my curiosity) ready to sit down to table with the holy fathers missionaries. The honest licentiate, who was no less struck than myself with the air of dignity that appeared in their countenances, received them with great politeness, and ordered a cover to be set for each : all the time we were at table I observed our monks eyeing the young pilgrim with marks of the greatest admiration ; and they were on all occasions ready to say a thousand little obliging things to him ; but he, so far from making any answer to them, held his eyes fixed in modest silence on the grounds ; and scarcely seemed to hear any thing they said : this behaviour only served to redouble their curiosity and surprise. What reason, said they one to another, can the old man have for treating this sweet young creature with so much severity ? It is downright murder to expose so tender a form to the rude fatigues of a pilgrimage: if he has been guilty of any crime, could he not have gone and done penance himself without exposing the life of this young innocent ? There is something shockingly cruel in such a proceeding. He may probably have his reasons for it, said another ; and I must own, I should be glad to know them : let us desire the favour of him to satisfy us in this particular. There is no difficulty in the thing ; these sort of people are never so well pleased as when they are relating their adventures.
Their reverences were not the only persons of the company who had a curiosity to be informed of the reason of their pilgrimage, Castilmoro and every one present were equally desirous of it ; and the licentiate managed the conversation so as to make it fall insensibly upon the subject of our desires. The old pilgrim soon perceived his drift, and very politely said, I see Sir, you and the rest of this good
company are impatient to know who we are, and what were our motives for undertaking this pilgrimage ; this is a secret, which I have hitherto kept carefully concealed ; but the prudence which ought to make an inseparable part of the character of those of your profession, and the obligation we have to you for the generous reception we have met with here, not only incline but even force me to gratify your desire : I have only one favour to request of you before I begin the relation of my adventures ; which is to promise me that you will keep them secret. We all readily promised never to mention them again to any person whatever : upon which he began his story in the manner that will be seen in the following chapter.
 VII.
This history of the count de Redundo and Donna Theresia.
YOU have doubtless, gentlemen, heard before to-day of the dismal effects of love, said the old pilgrim : the world is full of stories of this kind, and of the unhappy consequences arising from this fatal passion ; but amongst the many instances that may have come to your knowledge, I question much whether any were equal to mine ; as you will be able to judge by the relation I am now going to make to you.
The count de Redundo, my father, after having placed me in the posts he occupied at court, retired to one of his estates in the country, where he ended he ended his days in that happy tranquility which is unknown to those who are the followers of a court. I was then about the person of Don John, our sovereign of glorious memory, and was honoured with a considerable share of his confidence. You will easily suppose, that in such a situation the conquest of hearts was a matter of no great difficulty, especially in a court so famed for its gallantry, as was that of the prince I am speaking of : but amongst all the beauties to whom I had a right to make pretensions I found my heart engaged to one in particular above the rest : she was none of those coquettish ones of her sex that place all their attention in concealing their own defects, and studying the weak sides of the men whom they intend to make their slaves. Sweetness, modesty, and candor (rare qualities in a court) made the principal parts of her character ; beautiful by nature without the assistance of art, and with the secret of pleasing every one without seeming to intend it, her charms were so much the more dangerous, as no one entertained a suspicion of them, and consequently could not be upon their guard : I myself experienced the truth of this on an occasion wherein she had not the least design upon my heart any more than I at that time had on her's. It was as follows :
Don John being put into the peaceable possession of the throne of Portugal, was willing to testify his acknowledgement to the principal noblemen and grandees of the court, who had so generously supported his cause ; for this purpose he made a magnificent entertainment to which they were all invited. I shall not take up your time with a description of it, as the detail would carry me too far, and shall content myself with saying, that the greatest master-pieces of art and nature were united to make it as splendid as possible ; amongst the great number of women of quality, who were not the least ornaments of this superb feast, was one named Donna Teresia de Mundao : this was the fair one whose picture I have already given you ; and the remembrance of whom still draws tears from my eyes. As she was at that time one of the ladies of honour to the queen, she attended her royal mistress to the ball with which the entertainment was to open. The princess herself was not a little admired for her sprightliness and skill in dancing ; but Donna Teresia, who danced next after her, was greatly superior on account of the bewitching grace with which she accompanied every step : the courtiers were to a man enchanted with her, and nothing but policy kept them from openly giving her the preference to the queen. Donna Teresia, who joined to the most exquisite beauty a modesty without example, was not in the least vain or proud upon the encomiums she heard lavished on her from every mouth ; she received all the compliments made her, and returned them with politeness, but at the same time shewed an indifference to them, that was surprising in a person of her sex and beauty.
As the rank I then held about the king, put me every way upon a footing with her, I desired her to grant me the favour of her hand to dance with me ; to which she consented. Fatally delightful complaisance ! this was the source of all my misfortunes, as it has been of the greatest pleasures that man could taste in this world ; but it pleased heaven to make me pass successively from the height of bliss to the deepest abyss of misery ; it was my fate, and there was no avoiding it : chance brought our eyes to meet as we were dancing. Good heavens ! what became of me at that instant ! I received all the fire of her's full in my heart, which immediately burnt with a passion the most ardent that was ever yet experienced. I saw, I fought, I loved nothing else but the charming Teresia : the love she had inspired me with was too violent to remain long concealed, and I only waited for the breaking up of the ball to declare myself to her ; but I could not do it without trembling ; so much was I afraid : lest my declaration should offend her ; but love proved my friend, and I found something more than bare civility in the answer she made me.
This was a great deal for a person of Teresia's modesty and reserve. As I was perfectly well acquainted with her character, I concluded from her reply that she was not displeased with this avowal of my passion, and was from thence encouraged to devote myself to her service ; nor had I reason to complain of my success, for she burnt with an equal flame to mine ; and after six months tender assiduities I became the master of her heart and hand. At that happy period we tasted all the innocent delights of two fond hearts whom heaven seemed to have formed for each other : a lovely girl was the fruit of our chaste endearments, which were if possible increased by her birth ; but alas ! they were too exquisite to be lasting ; some demon, envious of our felicity, crossed them by the most fatal stroke that could possibly happen ; this was the death of my dearest Theresia, who was snatched from me a few years after the birth of this infant. Words are too weak to paint to you the agonies of affliction, or rather the despair I felt at this accident ; I certainly should never have survived it, was it true that one may die of grief ; for mine was in the utmost excess, and I should doubtless have sunk beneath it, had not providence reserved me for greater calamities.
After this loss every thing became hateful to me, and the court, that general round of noise and dissipation, instead of alleviating my grief served rather to increase it. Every step I took, every face I saw, reminded me of my Theresia. At length unable to make head any longer against my grief, I resolved to fly to a place where every thing administered fresh fewel to my disorder, and to seek in the new world that tranquillity I had for ever lost in this. I would willingly have taken with me the precious fruit of our loves ; but her tender age, and a father's fondness would not suffer me to trust so rich a treasure to such a merciless element as the sea ; I therefore delivered her in charge to one of her uncles, who promised me to take the same care of her as of his own daughter. After thus settling my affairs, pretending a sudden order from the king to go to the Brazils on some particular piece of service, I set out for Lisbon, where I took shipping.
It seemed as if heaven had inspired me with this thought to deliver me from the melancholy situation in which I was plunged ; for no sooner had I set my foot in the ship, than I saw myself accosted by a number of my friends, who knowing of my misfortune came purposely to comfort me, and expressed great satisfaction in the thoughts of our being to sail together. The chief of these, were Simon de Vasco, the captain of the ship ; Manuel de Feria, his son-in-law, who was second commander ;
Francisco de Correa, and several other officers ; all of whom were my acquaintance, and honoured me with their affection : of this they were constantly giving me proofs during the short time we were together ; for the same demon who had robbed me of my ever-loved Theresia was determined to bereave me also of these amiable friends, who were all that I had left in the world to comfort me for her loss ; and to force me to lament theirs. Dear friends ! as unfortunate as dear ! accept these tears, the poor tribute for your tender cares : your generous and sympathetic friendship merited a better fate. Would you believe it, gentlemen, continued the old man, wiping away the tears which trickled in large drops down his venerable face, these generous youths, fearing less I should relapse into my sorrow upon being left alone, carried the excess of their kindness so far as to keep me company for whole nights together, never leaving me but when they saw me overcome by sleep, and constantly returning again soon as they imagined I was awake again.
One evening, while they were thus keeping me company, a sailor came running into the cabin with a wild and distracted air, to acquaint us that the ship was on fire. We instantly ran upon deck, but could perceive no reason for this alarming news ; but Vasco having sent some of the sailors between decks, to make inquiry into the occasion of the report, they brought us word that the fire which had at first catched amongst the coals, at the bottom of the ship, had communicated itself to the other combustible stores, and from thence to the sides of the ship, so that all the hold was in a blaze ; and what was much more dreadful, that it was got very near the powder-room.
This dreadful news threw the whole ship's company into the highest consternation. On any other occasion, every one would have sought his safety in flight : but what hopes of escaping were here ? we had but two boats, and our ship carried upwards of five hundred men : besides, the nearest land to us was above two hundred leagues distant. The horrors of death were now painted in every countenance ; only Vasco and his officers beheld it with an undaunted courage ; and in hopes to prevent it, if possible, ordered all the help that could be brought in such circumstances. While some of the sailors were busied in endeavoruing to assuage the violence of the flames, others were ordered to hoist out the boats ; and as there were a great many passengers, the captain insisted upon their getting into them, and gave them one of the under-pilots to conduct them : but alas! This precaution was useless, for a number of the sailors and soldiers, judging of the danger by what they saw the captain about, jumped in such numbers into the boats as they lay along-side, that they presently sunk under them. At sight of this melancholy spectacle I returned thanks to heaven that I had resisted the intreaties of Don Vasco, who was very urgent with me to endeavour to save myself with the rest of the passengers ; but gratitude would not premit me to leave either him or his officers in a time of such imminent danger : I made him a tender of my weak assistance, assuring him that if it proved of no use, I would at least have the consolation of dying with such generous friends, who never had abandoned me in the hour of my distress. Alas, I little thought that while I was speaking these words, I was so near parting with them for ever !
A noise a thousand times more horrid than the loudest thunder at once informed us and made us sensible of our misfortune. The fire, notwithstanding all the efforts of the seamen, had reached the powder-room, and in the twinkling of an eye our ship was blown into a million of splinters, and I found myself carried half a mile up into the air in a sheet of smoke and fire ; I thought I was hurried alive into hell, and did not perceive my mistake till I fell down into the sea: in my fall I sunk almost as deep down
as I had before been carried to a height in the air ; but heaven saw fit that I should keep my presence of mind in both these elements.
The first think I thought of when I came above the water, was to return God thanks for having delivered me from the dreadful danger I had been in : my prayer was short and fervent, time and circumstances were too pressing to admit of a long one ; for tho' I had escaped from the most dreadful of all elements, I had still another to encounter with. Happily the sea was very calm, and the night one of the finest that could be ; without these two fortunate circumstances I must inevitably have perished : add to this that I got hold of a piece of the ship's mast which came floating by me, on which I seated myself as commodiously as I could, and delivered myself to the mercy of the waves, not knowing whither to direct my course, or if I was not driving out into the main ocean instead of towards the land.
It is not always in the hour of danger that we feel all the horrors of it : on the contrary, the soul seems to be stupified by the first impression, and perceives it as it were only in gross. The wise author of nature has doubtless permitted it to be so, lest the too lively sense of the instant danger should overwhelm us altogether : this was precisely my case on the present occasion. However strong an impression the dangers I had already escaped from made me, it was nothing to compare with what I felt afterwards : I now saw myself the sport of the wind and waves, and began to open my eyes to the deplorable condition I was in. Alas ! cried I in the first transports of my grief, what will become of me ? I am the outcast of all nature, and have no hope left but in the mercy of God ! It is he, and he alone, that can deliver me from the perils which surround me ; but how am I confident he will extend his goodness so far ; am I more innocent in his eyes than the unhappy wretches I have just seen perish by the flames and water ? Dear Vasco, dear Feria, unfortunate friends, and the only comforts I had left in this life, what had ye done to deserve so cruel a fate ?
In these melancholy thoughts I passed the most part of the night, and should perhaps have continued in them much longer, had not the raft to which I clung be driven by a sudden gust of wind against a rock ; the shock was so violent that it made me quit my hold, and I fell off into the sea ; however, I soon came up again, and swam to the rock against which my raft had been broken into a thousand pieces. As it appeared to be of a great height, I endeavoured to gain the top of it in hopes of making some discovery. As the day began not to draw on a-pace, it was already light enough to distinguish objects ; but what was my joy, when upon getting to the top of the rock, I perceived at some distance a number of trees, which the motion of the waves while I was upon the raft, made me take for floating pieces of timber ! I found my strength redoubled at this comfortable prospect, and hastening down from the rock, I threw myself once more into the sea, and swam for the opposite shore, which I reached in a short time. No sooner had I set my feet on land, than I found my spirits intirely exhausted by the violent efforts I had used in swimming : I was so overcome with the fatigues of the preceding night, that I gave myself up without reserve to the weariness that crept upon me, and flinging myself at the foot of a tree, fell fast asleep.
This gentlemen, continued the count de Redundo, is the first period, as I may call it, of the ills brought on me by love : I think you too humane not to have been sensibly touched with the relation of my sufferings : the tears which I have observed to fall from the eyes of that amiable cavalier who did us the honour of his protection, convinces me that it has at least affected him. It would be cruelty to push it
any farther, therefore give me leave to break in upon the story of my misfortunes, by relating to you some other adventures which befel me, the singularity of which cannot fail of giving you entertainment. Indeed they are so strange, and carry with them so much of that wonderful, which we meet in with fabulous relations, that you may perhaps hesitate giving credit to them ; and yet let me assure you they are strictly true, and in no wise like those fictions which are merely the children of the imagination.
Our missionaries were so charmed with the count's relation, and especially with the beauty of the young pilgrim, that they would gladly have passed the whole afternoon in listening to him, had they not been obliged to retire in order to prepare for the dispute which they had promised us that evening. The count seeing them withdraw, thought that he might now dispense with the rest of his narrative, and was preparing to take his leave ; but the whole company joined in requesting him to continue his story, which he did in the following manner :
 VIII.
Continuation of the adventures of the count de Redundo.
I HAD slept very heartily for about two hours, continued the count, when I was suddenly awakened by a great noise which I heard close to me : but how was I surprised, when upon opening my eyes I found myself laid along upon a litter which was carried by twelve monkeys, and guarded by above fifty more of these animals ! terrified at so odd a sight I would have leapt to the ground and taken to my heels ; but was stopt by a magpye who came up to me, and speaking in Portuguese, desired me to make myself easy, for that nothing but the kindest treatment was intended me. This motley ambassador farther added, that the emperor of Simiana, in whose country I then was, had sent him to let me know he would honour me with his royal protection, and was coming himself in person to assure me of it. As great as my surprise was at this extraordinary adventure, I was not a little comforted to hear the bird speak by own language, as it gave me reason to believe that the island was inhabited by my countrymen : I was enjoying this thought when my surprise was farther increased by a sight which now offered itself. I saw a body of about three hundred monkeys approaching at fifty or sixty paces from me, towards the litter in which I was carried : I could scarcely believe my eyes in seeing the regular order which they observed in their march. Two hundred of these creatures, mounted on shag dogs came first, followed by another body of an hundred, in the midst of which I could distinguish one monkey that seemed to have an air of greater dignity than the rest, and to whom they all paid much homage. Those who composed this last corps were not mounted on dogs like the rest ; but on a kind of animal very difficult to describe : it was all black, and of a form between a monkey and a dog ; but so as to resemble neither of these two species, which made me think it at first sight to be an unnatural production like our mules.These crreatures were distinguished from the other two species by a lump on their heads, which was supported by three small protuberances ; from whence they were called Tricorns : they were ridden without either bit or bridle, for as I learnt afterwards, they never could be brought to suffer them either by force or fair means. They were very meek in appearance, and suffered themselves to be led as their masters pleased, till some whim took them in the head to revolt, which did not unfrequently happen, and then no rein or power could keep them within bounds ; for instead of being governed by their masters, they obliged them to go just as they pleased, and would sometime throw them headlong down a precipice and break their necks ; several monkeys of the first rank had been taught by this woeful experience, which made them stand greatly in awe of these animals, and yet (which has often made me laugh at the folly of the great in that country) there was not a person of any fashion but must keep a set of Tricorns in his stables ; and the grand monkey himself had several studs of them.
As soon as the monkeys who escorted me, came near to this fresh troop, they set the litter upon the ground, and ran to pay their homage to the emperor, who, as soon as he saw me, descended from his car, and came to embrace me. Surprised at this salutation I hardly knew whether I was awake or sleeping, so very extraordinary did this whole affair appear to me : but my surprise was greatly increased when I heard the grand monkey wish me joy in Portuguese of my safe arrival in his dominions. He soon perceived my consternation, and guessing at the cause, endeavoured to encourage me by the kindest
expressions : every compliment he made me, was, as I may say, a fresh charm that took from me all power of speech and motion. He was not in the least displeased with my confusion ; on the contrary, he told me, he was not at all surprised at it, and that he hoped the first conversation we had together would help to remove it. Then making me get into his chariot with him, we set out in that manner for the city of Simianopolis, which is the capital of the empire : on our arrival I was received with the greatest honours, and was lodged in a magnificent apartment next to that of the emperor's, who treated me in every respect like a monkey of the first rank. Two little monkeys, who served him as pages, presented me with fruit, which I found to be exquisitely good : after this frugal meal a sound sleep, which lasted for some hours, perfectly refreshed me of the fatigues of the foregoing night.
As I had hitherto had no other company than that of monkeys, the first think I thought of upon waking, was to look for some man like myself, whose convesation might make me amends for the disgraceful situation I was fallen into : with this intention I arose and took a walk thro' the city ; but met with no other creature than monkeys, who were all excessively civil to me indeed ; but I saw too plainly what I had to expect. Good God, cried I ; to what am I reduced ! Hast thou then freed me from so many dangers, only to divest me of the society of men, and make me pass my life with these animals ? Alas, was I not sufficiently wretched without this fresh instance of thy wrath ? But thou hast seen fit it should be so ; and what can man against thy sovereign decrees ? -It is ours to submit.
The arrival of a parrot whom the grand monkey had sent to desire me to come to him, drew me from these melancholy reflections. I instantly repaired to the palace, and he no sooner saw me enter, than he inquired in the kindest manner after my health, and if I was perfectly recovered from my fatigues. I answered as well as I could ; but still in such a manner, that he perceived I was not quite recovered of the surprise I had been in in the evening before, at hearing him speak to me in Portuguese; ; in order therefore to dissipate my apprehensions he spoke to me in the following manner :
" I plainly perceive thro' all the endeavours you use to conceal it, that you are not yet recovered from you first surprise. It must doubtless astonish you to be thrown upon an island inhabited wholly by monkeys, and to find me endowed with faculties you never yet met with in those creatures ; but, besides that you ought to remember that the author of nature distributes a greater portion of gifts and talents to those whom he has chosen to rule over others, I shall acquaint you with some things, which at the same time that they will help to lessen your wonder, may also perhaps strike you with horror. Know then, that such as you behold me, I am a man as well as yourself, and that I only wear the form of the animals over whom I reign. You shudder at this relation, but perhaps it may appear incredible to you ; but give attention to me, and you shall find it to be no more than truth.
" You cannot be acquainted with Portugal without knowing the illustrious family of ****, and perhaps you may have heard speak of Donna Clementina and her adventures. My lord, replied I, I am intimately acquainted with the noble family you do me the honour of mentioning to me ; and I have even heard speak of Donna Clementina ; but all that is known concerning her is, that she was absent from Portugal for near ten years together, at the end of which time she appeared again, but without any one being able to know what had befel her during her so long an absence. I am not in the least surprised at that, replied the emperor, a woman of her strict honour must blush at the thoughts even of an involuntary crime, and be desirous of burying it in eternal oblivion ; and her's, which is of that kind, is at the same
time of so strange and unheard-of a nature, that had she even been imprudent enough to divulge it, I question much whether the Portuguese, with all their credulity, would have given credit to the relation. Know then that it is to her I am indebted for life."
I was very near fainting away at this shocking account ; a secret horror bereft me of my senses, and I should certainly have fallen to the earth, had not the emperor supported me. I told you, said he, when he saw me a little recovered, that the relation I was going to make you, would fill you with horror ; but hear me to the end, and endeavour to keep yourself from being too much shocked at the things I am going to discover to you.
 IX.
The story of Donna Clementina, and the loves of Grand Gula.
" AS you are acquainted with the name of Donna Clementina, continued the grand monkey, you must know that she was esteemed one of the most beautiful women in all Portugal ; to this beauty she owed her greatest misfortunes, as it was that which brought her into the most deplorable of all situations. I will now acquaint you in what manner : amongst the number of gentlemen who offered themselves for an husband to her, there was one who loved her with a more than ordinary passion, and whom she herself preferred to all the rest : he was of a very good family, and rich besides ; two reasons which determined the parents and friends of Donna Clementina to give him the preference to all the other suitors : in a word, they were quickly married ; but no sooner did he see himself in possession of the object of all his wishes, than his love was converted into the most extraordinary jealousy that ever existed. Not all the fondness, nor all the virtue of Clementina, were able to cure him ; and tho' she kept, the strictest guard upon her steps and actions, yet whatever she did seemed criminal in the eyes of her jealous husband.
" Tormented by these groundless disquietudes, he formed a resolution to remove her far from the sight or pursuits of his imaginary rivals : accordingly he quitted Lisbon and retired to an estate had about ten miles distant from Oporto ; where he employed his whole time in watching his wife's conduct. This virtuous and faithful woman who would have followed him to the midst of a desert, was a long time before she discovered the real motives of her husband's retreat ; but jealousy like love cannot be kept long concealed. She found at length that her husband's assiduous attendance proceeded not so much from love, as from his unjust suspicions ; this however she excused at first, well knowing that it is impossible for there to be a great love without some jealousy ; and she would in all probability have been so prudent as not to have taken any notice of them could he have put any bounds to his transports ; but the goodness and compliance of his wife seemed only to furnish him with fresh motives for persecuting her. In fine, Donna Clementina having brought him a daughter at the year's end after their marriage, this precious pledge which generally adds an increase to conjugal happiness, served only to augment his jealousy, which distracted his senses to such a degree, that he persuaded himself it was the fruit of his wife's adultery. Full of this mad notion he determined to be revenged on her for this imaginary disgrace, in the most extraordinary manner that ever entered into the head of man.
" To secure the execution of his horrid design, he dissembled the rancour of his heart till she was perfectly recovered from her lying-in, when he pretended some business at Lisbon, and told her that to make the voyage more speedy he would go by sea. Donna Clementina, to whom his life was still dear, notwithstanding the unjust suspicions he entertained of her, did all that lay in her power to divert him from this resolution by representing the dangers he would run at sea, and the uneasiness she should suffer during his absence, and the dispair she should be in if any accident should befal him ; but all her remonstrances were vain, and he set out one morning unknown to her for Oporto. As soon as she heard whither he was gone, she immediately set out after him, determined if she could not prevail on him to lay aside the thoughts of this voyage, to accompany him on board, and share with him the dangers of the sea together with him. Alas, too tender and too faithful woman ! She knew not that she was flying to her
ruin ; her tears and intreaties were so far from softening this unnatural wretch, that they only served to confirm him in his horrible design. He even took advantage of her tenderness to carry it into execution ; a tenderness that might have disarmed the most bloody barbarian ; but he on the contrary finding her resolved to accompany him (which he had supposed would be the case) had previously concerted measures with the captain of the ship to rid him of her altogether. The villain had agreed for a sum of money to land her upon some uninhabited island, from whence it would never be possible for her to return.
Night coming soon after they were on board, proved favorable to their wicked scheme : the husband was privately put on shore, and the ship steered right for the Brazils, whither it was bound.
" The morning was no sooner come than Clementina inquired with great earnestness after her husband, and was answered that they had been met in the nighttime by a vessel bound for Lisbon, which was a much beetter sailor than their own, and that he had gone on board to be the sooner there. As she expected to join him soon again, she was not much alarmed at this news ; but could not help complaining of the indifference her husband shewed to her in leaving her thus exposed alone to those dangers which she had come purposely to share with him.
" All this time the vessel having a favorable wind, sailed at a prodigious rate, and was now at above an hundred leagues distance from the coast of Portugal. Clementina who was from time to time casting her eyes about to discover if possible the ship which they had told her her husband had gone aboard, was with reason surprised that the passage from Oporto to Lisbon should be so long. The captain found means to amuse her with some false reasons for several days ; but at length perceiving that the ship had altered its course, she began to suspect some contrivance. Alas ! her suspicions were but too well grounded, but love still prevented her from condemning her base husband ; nay she even found out excuses for his leaving her, and forgave him from her soul : the near her misfortunes approached, the more unlikely she thought them ; nay the very instant of their beginning was to her a motive of joy ; for the captain coming down into the cabin, told her that they should see land the next day, and would immediately set her on shore, she was so overjoyed at this news that she intreated him to make all the sail he could, that they might reach the port as soon as possible. Unhappy Clementina, injured wife ! you knew not what it was you was wishing ; the fatal truth appeared too soon when the ship came off this island ; it could not get nearer than within two miles of the shore, on account of the rocks and sand-banks with which it is surrounded ; therefore the captain put her into the boat with four of his people, who landing her, together with some provisions for her present subsistence, rowed off again as fast as they could to the ship.
" And now it pleased heaven to remove the mist of love that had so long clouded the eyes of this unhappy victim : finding herself left upon a barren and desolate island, as she thought, and deprived of all prospect of relief, she discovered too late her husband's perfidy, and the treachery of the captain : in vain she had recourse to tears and supplications to engage those who had brought her on shore, to return and take her off ; they were already out of hearing. At length in the height of her despair at seeing herself thus basely abandoned, she was going to throw herself into the sea, when a troop of monkeys, who her cries had drawn to the place where she was, rushed in and saved her from death. Grand Gula, who at that time reigned over this island, and was then on a visit to the frontiers, ran himself to stop her ;
and now grief and the fright at seeing herself on a sudden surrounded by such a number of animals, intirely deprived her of her senses ; she fell down in a fit. The grand monkey compassionating her condition, made her be carried to his palace, and gave her all the assistance her condition required : she was at length brought to herself ; but only to feel her misfortunes with redoubled force.
" No words can express the consternation she was seized with at finding herself in a country wholly peopled with monkeys ; she hardly knew at first whether she was waking or in a dream ; but as the eyes by degrees accustom themselves to every object, her's in a little time began to grow familiar with what she saw about her ; and Grand Gula omitted nothing that he thought capable of making her situation as agreeable to her as possible.
" But his assiduities were soon taken notice of by his empress, to whom they gave great umbrage; and indeed not without cause, for Grand Gula was become excessively enamoured of his fair guest ; and his courtiers, as soon as they perceived his passion, were so far from persuading him against the indulging it, that they did all in their power to encourage him in his flame ; representing to him that he had an undoubted right over all the females on the island; and consequently that this, tho' infinitely more beautiful and accomplished than the rest, was in no-wise exempted from the same law that appropriated all to his royal will ; and that she might even think think herself greatly honoured by his favours. Grand Gula puffed up by their flattery, took an opportunity of disclosing his passion to her in the best manner he was able : conceive if it is possible the rage and indignation that seized on Clementina at so vile an avowal. Grand Gula finding himself treated with the last degree of contempt, began to repent of the foolish step he had taken ; but his infamous advisers still continued to encourage him in the pursuit, and carried their odious complaisance so far as to offer him their service towards the completion of his wishes, if he should find it necessary to have recourse to violence upon the failure of gentler means. In a word, they took the opportunity one night that Clementina was asleep, to effect their excrable purpose.
" How lively soever your imagination may be, it will fall far short of what Clementina felt after the perpetration of this horrid act : her despair was so great that Grand Gula was obliged to have her strictly guarded for some years, less she should put an end to a being now grown hateful to her : to this unnatural commerce I own my birth ; but it seemed as if heaven was willing to mitigate the horror that Clementina felt for this involuntary crime, by giving me only the person of Grand Gula, with all the judgment and reason, and in a word all the other qualifications of my mother. Of this she was so conscious, that it in some measure abated the edge of her misfortunes. I had not quite attained my fifth year when she found me endowed with sentiments superior to any of my kind, or even to what she could have supposed to meet with in me ; this by degrees got a little the better of her aversion to me, and as my reason and faculties displayed themselves more and more, she began to think me not wholly unworthy of her care, tho' she could not help looking on me as a monster in point of birth ; she therefore in the first place endeavoured to learn me the Portuguese language ; how she succeeded I leave you to judge : after that she proceeded to give me such instructions as were fitted to open and form the mind of a
rational creature ; and had the satisfaction of finding her labour not thrown away.	"
Grand Gula finding in her sentiments of tenderness for me, thought it would be the last degree of cruelty to detain her any longer in confinement, and therefore ordered her to have her liberty, chusing rather to
sacrifice his love, which was still as warm as ever towards her, than by a longer constraint to run the risque of losing her thro' the effects of despair : but he little thought how quickly he should lose her. No sooner did Clementina see herself at liberty, than she cast about for a means to make her escape ; but it was a considerable time before she could effect her design.
" One day that she was walking by the sea-side, wholly occupied with the thoughts of her unhappy situation, she discovered a ship at anchor at about two miles distance from the island. How great was her joy at this sight ! she instantly ran up to the top of an high cliff, and from thence made a signal with her handkerchief, on the end of a large bough she found in her way ; it happened by good fortune that at that instant the captain was taking his observation to know whereabouts he was, and perceived the signal ; upon which he immediately ordered the boat to be hoisted out, and sent some of the ship's crew in it to her assistance. Clementina seeing them making towards the shore, did not wait for their landing, but threw herself into the sea, and waded towards them : when they had taken her in she gave them a thousand and a thousand thanks for their charitable assistance, conjuring them to get off from the shore as fast as possible.
" It was indeed high time ; for Grand Gula, who upon missing her at the accustomed hour, suspected some mischance, had run down to the shore with his guard, and a whole train of his people : but what a sight was here for a lover ! He cast forth the most piercing cries, and ordered her immediately to be pursued ; but not one of his subjects would obey him : at length he threw himself into the sea, and swam towards the ship that had given asylum to his mistress. Transported with rage at the sight, he used his utmost efforts to come up with it ; but the vessel getting under sail, soon carried off his Clementina from him forever. In despair at seeing himself thus deprived of the dear object of his wishes, he plunged beneath the waves, and put an end to his unhappy days. All the monkeys who were present at this dismal spectacle, after paying the tribute of tears due to the unhappy fate of Grand Gula, proclaimed me emperor in his stead ; and I was accordingly conducted in triumph into this city, where I have managed the reins of government for the space of twelve years.
" This, my dear countryman (for so I must call you, since I look upon myself as a Portuguese, tho' born upon this island, my mother being a native of that kingdom) this, continued the grand monkey, is the story of my life ; which has doubtless filled you with wonder and amazement, and might appear wholly incredible to you, had you not been yourself a witness to part of the facts, and that the knowledge you have of Clementina, confirms the truth of my relation. Now therefore, lay aside the surprise and concern that has taken possession of you : it is doubtless an unheard-of thing, that a monkey should have the gift of speech ; but the greatest part of that wonder ceases in a monkey like me."
 X.
Which will exercise the mind of more than one reader.
NOTHING less than a relation so well circumstantiated could have quieted my apprehensions ; and tho' I could not look at the great monkey without being surprised at the caprice of nature, who sometimes takes pleasure in uniting the most contrary things in her works, yet I found nothing impossible in what he told me ; for how many men do we meet with in the world, who have the exact figure of monkeys without any of the excellent qualities that shewed themselves in this ? Emboldened by the confidence he put in me, I asked him how he came to be so soon informed of my landing on his island. By a way very easy to be accounted for, said he ; you must know that a war I am engaged in against the beavers, obliges me to keep a great number of spies, not only in the capital, but in every town and village of my kingdom, that I may be perfectly informed of every thing that is going on : it was a party of these who discovered you upon your arrival yesterday, and immediately came to acquaint me with it : I instantly knew by their description of your figure and dress, that you must be some European who had been cast away upon this place, and I felt emotions of humanity and pity that I had never before experienced ; I even shed tears for your misfortunes, and could not resist the earnest desire I had to see you and offer you assistance. I laid aside for that time my royal dignity, and considering that one real man was of more worth than all the monkeys in the world put together, resolved to go forth and meet you, to make you an offer of every thing in my power, which from this day you may dispose of as your own, and I shall esteem myself happy, if by this slight act of generosity I can prevail on you to remain with me, and assist me with your counsels.
He concluded this speech with an embrace, from which I would rather have been excused ; however, I was obliged to receive it with respect, and to relate to him my adventures in return, with which he seemed greatly moved. Just as I had finished my story, a little parrot came from Belle-queüe (or Fine-tail) to acquaint his majesty that the council waited for him : I could not forbear smiling at hearing the jargon of this pretty little bird. The emperor observed it, and turning to me ; Alas ! said he, thou seest to what I am reduced ; parrots, magpies, and jackdaws are my only interpreters and confidents, and I must also have the patience to learn them to talk. As to the rest of my courtiers, they only serve to divert me with their tricks ; but now you will supply the place of them all, and I here promise to be governed for the future by your advice alone : to give you a proof of my sincerity I will take you with me this day to the council, which is held on account of an intestine war, which has long laid this kingdom waste, and which all my endeavours have hitherto been ineffectual to extinguish : you may perhaps do more in one day than we have been able to do in eighty years.
Saying this, he took me with him to the council-chamber, where we found Belle-queüe and several other monkeys of the first rank, with a great number of parrots, maagpies, and jackdaws, perched on the backs of the seats. I was almost deafened with the noise and chattering of these creatures, who loaded me with a number of fulsome compliments that lasted till the great monkey had taken his seat : when all was quiet, a parrot perfectly well versed in oratory, proposed the subject of that day's debate, which was to prevent the ruin with which the empire had been threatened from its first establishment :
this was no less than the total overthrow of the island, which the beavers had been for a long time privately working at, and were now on the point of effecting. Belle-queüe, who was the person that informed the council of this alarming news, had learnt by some of his spies that these creatures, in order to be revenged for the perpetual disturbances they had suffered from the monkeys for upwards of twenty years, had returned into the sea, from whence it seems they had undermined the island in such a manner, that it rested now only upon a very narrow slip of land. As the danger appeared so very pressing, the emperor was humbly besought that he would be pleased to take the advice of his council, in order to put the most speedy remedy to the disaster that threatened the whole kingdom.
The great monkey, alarmed at this melancholy account, begged me to give my advice in the first place ; but I excused myself from it, for fear of drawing the jealousy of the courtiers upon me ; and the question was put to the rest. Every one was so confounded at this unexpected stroke, that they had lost even the power of thinking ; and Belle-queüe, who had grown grey in affairs of state, was the only one who ventured to give his advice ; and it was such a one as sufficiently proved his great understanding : He proposed to get together all the pumps that could be found in the kingdom, and to make a draught of eighty or an hundred thousand monkeys from the king's forces, who were to be sent to the seacoasts there to work the pumps ; by this means, said he, we shall suck the sea dry ; after that we will directly surround the whole island, and then we shall catch the beavers in the very trap they have laid for us. Notwithstanding the ridiculousness of this project, it was on the point of being carried by the general voice, had not a burst of laughter escaped me, in spite of all my endeavours to restrain it ; a fierce look that Belle-queüe gave me, made me instantly re-assume a serious air : the emperor who as well as myself was sensible of the folly of this advice, broke up the assembly till the next day.
Belle-queüe's news had notwithstanding made so strong an impression on him, that he did not take his usual diversion of walking that day ; but shut himself up in his closet, whither he sent for me to attend him. When we were alone he asked me what I thought of this plot of the beavers, and how it might be best prevented ? I replied, that being so lately come into the island, and consequently wholly ignorant of the character of the enemy, I was apprehensive lest the advice I should give, might, instead of remedying matters, make them worse, since it was necessary to be perfectly well acquainted with a disorder before attempting a cure ; therefore, in order to remove that obstacle, I told him, I should be glad that he would be pleased to inform me of the genius of the beavers, and of the origin and progress of the war that had subsisted so long a time between his people and them. Your observation is very just, replied the emperor ; and this single piece of prudence is more than I have met with from all the monkeys that were present at council. Listen then to what I am going to say :
You must know that the government of this island has not been in the hands of the monkeys above eighty years ; the beavers having been in possession of it before for time immemorial ; but every thing is liable to change, and the firmest thrones are frequently overturned by accidents, which the most consummate prudence could not forsee : this has been the case here. While a beaver, the most prudent of his race, held the reins of government, the beavers and monkeys (for we were then one people) lived in that peaceful union, which is the constant fruit of a wise and equitable government, when an unforseen accident, which had like to have been our ruin, broke this union, and by a sudden and astonishing change, transferred the empire to the monkeys ; it happened in the following manner :
One day that Augustulus (for that was the name given by way of excellence to the beaver who then governed us) had called an assembly of the states to deliberate on an affair of great importance ; that wise monarch, after having proposed the matter to the assembly, gave his own advice, which was certainly the best and most prudent that could have been given on the occasion : and it was accordingly approved by all the beavers present, and by the greater part of the monkeys, and was on the point of being carried into execution, when one of our fraternity, a monkey of an ambitious and restless spirit (who had gotten the nickname of Petite-meűle (or Little Millstone) from an expression of his, that if he should ever come to rule the kingdom, he would crush all the beavers to death) rose up and made some objections to what the emperor had advised. The respect that every one bore the prince, would not suffer them to let such a piece of insolence pass with impunity, but raised a general hoot against the ugly brute, which threw him into so violent a rage, that he flew upon the back of Augustulus, and there began crying with all his strength, that tho' the emperor might have seen the affair in a better light than any of the rest of the assembly ; yet he as a monkey understood it still better than the emperor.
This outrageous insolence would have met with its just punishment upon the spot, had not Augustulus, who was goodness itself, ordered him to be released, contented with having him declared lunatic. Goodness carried to extremes often becomes a vice ; this was the only one which that prince could be reproached with ; and he was himself the victim of it. Petite-meűle seeing himself thus delivered from the danger he had been in, only grew more insolent upon it : he made use of his liberty to gain himself a set of creatures whose number increased so considerably, that in a little time he saw himself in a condition to take arms against his prince and benefactor, and actually marched to attack him. Augustulus laughed at first at this ridiculous army, and contented himself with sending his regiments of magpies to oppose it, who falling on the enemy with their beaks and claws, soon put them to flight ; and Petite-meűle himself was very near being taken : he took advantage of this lucky escape to raise new forces , and return again to the field, where he was a second time defeated. However, he still preserved his courage, or rather insolent folly, amidst all his losses, and resolved to hazard a third encounter : accordingly he returned to the charge at a time when it was the least suspected ; but with no better success than before. But as the flames of war when once lighted, quickly spread, this soon became general : Petite-meűle took such artful measures to strengthen his party, that he soon drew all the monkeys of the island over to his side ; but not without great expence and pains, nor would he ever have been able to succeed without the assistance of the Grand Cochenillier, whom he had privately prevailed on to espouse his cause, and who now put himself at the head of the rebel forces.
Augustulus, who had always found this officer faithful, and had given him the command of his armies, suspected no treachery, and even diverted himself at the empty menaces and efforts of Petite-meűle : but when he heard that the Grand Cochenillier had betrayed him, he immediately assembled his whole forces, and putting himself at their head, marched to meet the enemy, who seeing him advance, prepared to give him battle, which would infallibly have ended in their total overthrow, had not some of the emperor's officers (deceived by the sight of the Grand Cochenillier, whom they still thought faithful to his prince) fallen into the snare laid for them by Petite-meűle : the battle was very obstinate : however victory would still have declared for the beavers, if the monkeys, finding themselves pressed, had not had recourse to a stratagem : they advanced boldly towards the beavers, and presenting some bits of
tinsel full in their faces, the greater part of them were so dazzled with this deceitful glitter, that they began to give way : however they still continued to dispute the field, till Augustulus perceiving the fortune of the day to turn against him, ordered a retreat to be sounded, leaving the enemies masters of the field of battle.
The monkeys, flushed with this success, had the skill to make the most of it : they pursued the beavers with vigour, and gained several considerable advantages over them ; and fortune continuing to favor them, they became in a little time masters of the capital of the empire. Augustulus now saw himself obliged to quit his throne and empire, at least for a time, to the ambitious Petite-meűle, who no sooner saw himself in possession of it, but he strictly adhered to the promise he had made of grinding the beavers ; his reign was truly a reign of iron to those poor wretches. Grand Gula, who succeeded him on the throne, acted in much the same manner towards them ; and as for myself, I will not scruple owning to you, that my favourites taking advantage of my youth, have not treated them much better ; yet I have observed with great surprise, that all these persecutions have not been able to suppress them ; on the contrary they seem to gather greater strength and increase ; they have for the present returned to the island of Biblio-Patria, from whence they return in stronger parties than ever, and push us with such vigour, that we are hardly able to defend ourselves against their repeated attacks.
And could not your majesty, replied I, send some of your subjects to that island, to furnish themselves from thence with defensive arms, as well as your enemies have done with those for offence ? It might be done, said the emperor, if the monkeys were not naturally so indolent and fond of pleasure ; but the voyage thither is so long and difficult, that I do not think there are four monkeys to be met with in my whole kingdom that have ever been there. However, their love of ease has supplied them with a method of exempting themselves from the necessity of undertaking this troublesome task, which is the discovery of a certain bark, on which they stamp a figure so formidable to the beavers, that the instant it is opposed to them, they take to flight. My ministers, charmed with this discovery, caused such numbers of these to be made since I have been on the throne, that, thanks to the great Magog ! there is hardly a beaver to be seen in this island ; but alas ! they have only retired to work our ruin more surely, but rooting this empire from its foundations, as thou mayst perceive from the account given by Belle-queüe.
Thus, my dear friend and counsellor, have I declared to thee the rise and progress of our war with the beavers, the source of those evils, which now threaten us, and which to me appear inevitable ; for how can we possibly guard against them ? Great emperor, replied I, there is nothing impossible to those princes whom heaven has endowed with qualifications like those I perceive in you : your own abilities are certainly sufficiently great to direct you to the wisest and most effectual methods ; but since your majesty has been pleased to honour me so far as to repose a confidence in me, and to ask my advice in this situation of affairs ; I am doubtless bound in gratitude and duty to give it to you in the best of my power, and yet I must own myself somewhat embarrassed how to behave on this occasion : truth is not always pleasing to kings, and I am apprehensive lest my sincerity-
Do you then take me for so unreasonable a person, said the emperor, interrupting me, or that I am like those princes who always shut their ears to truth, and will suffer none but flatterers and parasites to approach them ? Do me more justice ; and, instead of confounding me with these wretches, speak to me with all freedom : he who delights only in flattery, does not deserve to receive good counsel : but to
engage you more effectually to give it me, I will begin by acknowledging that I have been let to take many false steps.
This, said I, is a misfortune almost inseparable from the high station in which it has pleased heaven to place your majesty ; but would to that same heaven all princes were alike ready to acknowledge it ! However, since you have been so gracious as to grant me full liberty of speech, I must begin by saying, that in my opinion the present evils that overwhelm your kingdom, are wholly owing to those false steps you acknowledge yourself to have been led into by the pernicious advice of your ambitious counsellors. It is not by violence nor ill-treatment that subjects are to be brought to a sense of their duty ; clemency should be the chief virtue of a prince ; and he who knows only how to punish, is ignorant of the true art of reigning. What heinous crimes have your beavers been guilty of to deserve the cruel treatment they have met with ? They have endeavoured to secure themselves from the barbarities and outrages exercised upon them ; can any thing be more just and reasonable ? or is such the reward they had a right to expect for the pains they were at, in first laying the foundation of that empire, which has since descended to you ? they are ill used, oppressed, and ruined, and their whole race are to be extirpated from the earth, because they cannot forget the insult offered by one of your people, to the most illustrious and beloved of all their princes. Should not this noble resentment, which proceeds wholly from the high respect they have for majesty, be rather a motive for trying gentle means to attach them to your interest ? Or, supposing them obstinately bent on revenging the injuries done to a wise and good prince, whom they have no so long and for ever lost, it is not more than probable, that they might be brought to do every thing for you, in whose person they may find united more valuable qualifications than ever yet graced any of your predecessors ? If Petite-meűle, or Grand Gula, took false and ridiculous steps, is it for you to give a sanction to them by your example ? Consider, that humanity places you as far above those tyrants, as you are exalted by the gift of reason above the brutes you govern : make use then of that reason on the present occasion, and consider that you run the risk of losing every thing by driving your people to despair. You may judge of this from what you have lately learnt by Belle-queüe-I acknowledge the justice of what you say, cried the emperor, interrupting me ; but what is to be done in the present exigency ? Make use of lenity, replied I ; that is a never-failing remedy : the danger is threatening, I must allow, but yet perhaps not so great as it is made, nor so near at hand : dispatch instantly your parrots, magpies, and jackdaws to all parts of the kingdom, let them proclaim a general amnesty ; restore union and a good understanding between the two nations ; divide those honours and posts which are in your gift, equally between them both, and then perhaps you will find that the beavers are a very different people to what they have been represented to you.
How happy are the people who are governed by a prince who joins docility to penetration! The emperor was so far from being offended with my freedom, that he relished the advice I had given him : this, said he, embracing me tenderly, this is indeed the advice of a man : did I not tell thee that thou wouldst do more in one day, than all our monkeys would be able to compass in an age ? Alas, why did it not please heaven to send thee to my assistance sooner ? my reign would then have been peaceable and flourishing. But no more of that, let us not now waste an instant ; it is never too late for a prince to attempt to make his people happy ; and the advice you have given me, seems so excellently well calculated for bringing about this desirable end, that I do not in the least doubt, that heaven, who
certainly inspired thee with it, will crown the execution with success. In consequence of these wise reflections, the emperor dispatched that very evening his magpies and jackdaws to every town and village of his dominions, to proclaim a general peace with the beavers, with assurance of restoring them again to his confidence and esteem.
While this was doing, the court was in a general consternation at the news of the intended overthrow of the island ; the she-monkeys especially were alarmed beyond expression. The island seemed already buried under the waves in their imagination, and they were setting all their little wits to work to escape the general calamity : some depended on their dogs, others on their Tricorns ; but the great difficulty was to know, whether these animals, who are of a very stubborn nature, would give their service on this occasion ; for there was not much trust to be put in them ; and those monkeys of the court, who had had the most experience, declared that they had often observed these creatures to be particularly headstrong and refractory at such times ; and what served to increase their panic, was a certain air of exultation that appeared in the countenances of the Tricorns on this occasion, and shewed that they took the greatest pleasure in the public calamity. However, affairs did not continue long in this situation, thanks to the wisdom of the great monkey, who had, unknown to them, provided for the general safety ! but I myself was very near falling a victim to the advice I had given, and in the following manner:
No sooner was the peace proclaimed, than twelve ambassadors appeared at the court from the nation of beavers, to clear themselves from the accusations which had been made use of to blacken them in the great monkey's opinion ; and to swear a lasting and inviolable fidelity. As much as the inhabitants of Simiania were overjoyed at this happy union, so much were the Tricorns enraged at it, their disgust went so far as to occasion a general revolt amongst them, which began by those of the great monkey's stable, who, after breaking their clogs, bursting open the doors of their stables, and trampling their keepers under their feet, proceeded to join the rest of their companions who belonged to the principal monkeys of the kingdom : they now threatened to destroy every thing in the island by fire and sword, unless the war was instantly renewed against the beavers : at first these menaces were looked upon as the effects of a phrenzy that these animals are very subject to, and laughed at accordingly ; but the affair soon began to grow very serious, for in a few days afterwards all the Tricorns that were dispersed thro' the kingdom, flocked to join their comrades, and went in a body to the palace to demand of the emperor the utter extirpation of the whole race of beavers, threatening in case of a refusal, to make him feel the effects of their vengeance.
This insolence, and the empire that these animals had for a considerable time obtained over the principal monkeys of Simiania, threw the whole court into the greatest consternation. The great monkey himself was at a loss how to appease this mutiny ; when a beaver, in the name of all his brethren, who were desirous of giving this proof of their attachment to the royal person, demanded by an interpreter, leave to offer combat to the Tricorns : as it is only our ruin that they seek, said he, it is not just that your majesty or your subjects should expose yourselves in our cause : let us alone meet the storm, perhaps it may not be so terrible as it seems : this is not the first time we have entered the lists with them, and come off with victory ; may we not have the same success now when we fight for the defence of your majesty's sacred person, and the preservation of that liberty to which you so lately restored us ?
The emperor, equally delighted with their courage and fidelity, answered them, that he would willingly agree to their request, if the danger was less urgent, and that the Tricorns would only give them time to assemble their forces. There is no occasion for that, replied the beaver by his interpreter ; there are but twelve of us here, and they are about ten thousand in number, yet are we not in the least dismayed at this vast superiority : it is not numbers, but courage that gains battles ; therefore give us but your permission to enter the lists with them, and leave us to answer for the success.
The great monkey was astonished at such intrepid valour ; but the fear of losing such valuable subjects, and of lighting up an intestine war that might in the end transfer the reins of government to the Tricorns, as it had formerly done from the beavers to the monkeys, determined him to refuse his permission for the desired combat, and thought to restore quiet by proposing terms of accommodation to the Tricorns. But these animals who really aspired to the government, which they made themselves sure of keeping by the influence they had with the grandees of the kingdom, refused to listen to any propositions, and grown proud and insolent of their numbers, threatened to dethrone the emperor that instant, unless he complied with the terms they dictated to him. All had now been lost, if the deputies of the beavers, exasperated at the insolence of their implacable enemies, had not resolved to revenge his imperial majesty even against his own consent. In this determination they flew out of the palace, and rushed into the midst of the Tricorns, like lions : these creatures were struck with dread at the sight of the tremendous arms worn by their adversaries ; they endeavoured in vain to make use of those barks which they had seen their masters employ against them on the like occasions, and of which they had provided themselves with an ample store ; for as the emperor had forbidden the use of them since the conclusion of the peace with the beavers, they no longer stood them in any stead, and they found themselves at length obliged to yield, but not till after an obstinate fight, in which above eight thousand Tricorns were trodden under foot by their enemies. The rest saved themselves by flight, among the woods and inaccessible parts of the island, where they remained to conceal their shame and ignominy.
It is easy to imagine the joy with which this event filled the emperor and the whole court, which soon spread itself through all the kingdom; every one expressing their satisfaction by the most public rejoicings : Belle-queüe, was the only one who did not share in the general joy ; the loss of above thirty beautiful Tricorns, of which he was passionately fond (having his stables constantly filled with numbers of these animals) this loss I say, added to a jealousy which he had secretly conceived against me for having brought about a peace with the beavers without his participation, hindered him from bearing any part in the public happiness, and determined him to conspire my ruin ; in which he was joined by some others of the courtiers, who were equally jealous of the preference shewn me by the emperor. The danger that threatened me was so much the greater, as they kept their design extremely secret. It was not however so perfectly concealed, but that Beau-museau (or Pretty-muzzle) his spouse, got notice of it ; and as she had entertained a secret passion for me, she sent a parrot to me one day, with a message to meet her at the sea-side, having something of the greatest consequence to impart to me : I immediately followed the messenger, and found Beau-Museau waiting for me, who after having explained her passion for me, by a thousand odd grimaces and rolling of her eyes, revealed her secret to me by means of a trusty parrot, who was her confident. At first I imagined this was no other than a scheme of hers to engage me the more readily to receive the declaration of her passion ; but I was soon undeceived, by
seeing Belle-queüe approach at the head of a troop of monkeys completely armed ; and began to find that her information was but too well founded. Beau Museau fled away the instant she perceived them ; and I should have followed her example, had not Belle-queüe, who came determined to destroy me, and found his resentment encreased by surprising me in private conference with his wife, spread his little squadron in such a manner, as to cut off all means of flight. I was not on the point of being surrounded, and should certainly have fallen a victim to their rage, had I not had the presence of mind to throw myself into the sea, where I was immediately out of their reach.
This was running into one danger to escape another, of which I was instantly sensible ; but not knowing what course to take, I began to swim at hazard, when I saw a beaver, who upon knowing me, had flung himself into the water, and came swimming directly towards me, offering me his back to seat myself upon, which I immediately accepted, trusting to Providence, whom I thought had doubtless sent that animal to deliver me from the danger I was in. He had carried me in this manner for the length of four or five miles, when I thought I discovered a vessel at anchor in the offing. I immediately flung myself off his back, and swam directly towards the place where the ship lay ; but whether the animal himself was going that way, or whether he suspected my design, I know not, but he followed me, and in swimming mounted me again on his back : by this means in less than an hour's time we got up with the vessel, and he carried me close along-side. The sailors, astonished at this prodigy, threw me a ladder of ropes, by which I climbed up into the ship ; and turning towards my deliverer and guide, to thank him for his services, he no sooner saw me take my leave of him, than he instantly plunged under the waves, and swam back to the island from whence he had so generously brought me off in safety.
 XI.
A sermon on the sixth commandment, followed by an odd masquerade. The fatal accident occasioned by it. The tragical end of the mission.
IT seemed as if our missionaries had waited for the count's finishing his story before they began their conference ; for no sooner had he ended than the bell rung. By my soul, said D. Antonio, here is too much talking without drinking. Come, signor count, here's your health, not forgetting the honest emperor : by Saint Jago he was a very good kind of a man, setting aside his figure ; and I think it a thousand pities he had to do with such a set of rascally beasts as those same Tricorns ; but you will find such vermin every where, that can neither be quiet themselves, nor let others be so. By this good bottle, had i been in your place, I would have made them drink ; look you, I would have made them drink, till I could have brought them all to a right way of thinking ; for you know, Bacchus rixas composcet et iras, as Solomon excellently well observes-Capite-nescio quo.
This learned sally of my uncle's diverted me as much as the count's story, which he had just been relating to us, and which I could not help looking upon as the mere effects of his invention, to
make amends for the fears that the first part of his adventures had drawn from me. However, D. Antonio, and some old politicians who were of the company, took it in a quite different light, and maintained, that there was a great deal of truth in the latter part ; but the slender opinion that I entertained of their understandings, hindered me from subscribing to that opinion : but whatever was the case, this entertaining relation procured the count the thanks of all the company ; and Castilmoro overflowed with expressions of civility and friendship, insisting that the new pilgrims should take up their lodging at his house till the next day at least. The count would have excused himself from accepting of this offer ; but the whole company having reminded him of the promise he made to inform us of the reason of his present pilgrimage, of which he had not yet taken the lease notice, he suffered himself to be prevailed on in order to give us the satisfaction we desired.
I was divided between the pleasure I took in his company, and that which I promised myself from being present at the conference to be held by our monks, which I was well persuaded would produce something very extraordinary. I knew not whether the count perceived my embarassment, but seeing Castilmoro rise from the table, in order to go to church, Sir, said he, turning to me, I imagine you had an intention of returning again to church, when we had the honour of meeting with you. I answered him frankly, that I had an intention to go and hear a conference that was to be held by our missionaries, but that the pleasure I took in his agreeable company-God forbid, young gentleman, said the count, interrupting me, that I should be the hindrance of so good a work ; on the contrary it would give me great pleasure, as I have promised to stay in this place to-night, to accompany you thither. Come, Madam, said he, addressing himself to the young pilgrim, let us go and hear the word of God, and set an example of decorum to the people, whom we ought to edify, as much by our devotion as by our penance.
At these words I could not help casting my eyes on the young pilgrim, whose face was covered with blushes while the count was speaking. She immediately arose and followed him, and we proceeded all together to the church, where we found a prodigious croud of people that had been drawn thither by their curiosity, and in particular all the young people of both sexes. We had scarcely taken our places, when one of the monks got up in the pulpit and began to give us a lecture against lewdness ; and to obviate all reflections that the nature of such a subject might bring on him, he told us that he had two reasons which induced him to preach on that head: the first was, because there was hardly one in the world exempt from that sin (this was paying a great compliment to his audience, and to human nature in general) : the second was, because there was hardly any sin of that kind but what was mortal ; so that it was of the greatest consequence for every one to be perfectly well instructed in the nature of it, in order that they might the better discharge their consciences at confession : this the good preacher laboured to do through the whole of his sermon, which was nothing but one continued scene of obscenities from the beginning to the ending. However, these things seemed of such consequence to him, that he was continually desiring his audience to follow him step by step in his curious detail ; but indeed there was no occasion for this admonition, for he was listened to with more attention, than if he had preached upon the most edifying subject, or had even made the panegyric of some new saint.
It may easily be imagined what kind of impression this was likely to make on the minds of a number of young people. The monk, either perceiving this, or having a suspicion what might be the effects of his discourse, thought to obviate every thing of that nature by terrifying his audience with
images as dreadful as the others had been flattering and delightful : with this view he painted to us, in lively colours, the punishment reserved for those who gave themselves up to such kinds of wickedness. He then proceeded to a frightful description, of the lakes of fire and brimstone, wherein the souls of lewd and debauched people are eternally steeped, and the vipers that gnaw them without ceasing in those very parts which were the chief instruments of their sin. In short, he exhausted all his rhetoric to inspire his audience with as great dread and terror, as he had before railed in them concupiscence and wanton thoughts.
In this he might perhaps have succeeded, had not one of his brethren, at that very instant, stirred anew this filthy jakes, by rising up, and playing the true part of the devil's advocate. After having censured the foregoing doctrine as too severe, he undertook to justify the propensity that all men have to this vice, by the manner of God's dealing with them, in permitting concupiscence to remain with them after baptism. From hence he concluded, that it was so far from being an evil, that on the contrary it was a great good, inasmuch as it gave a number of subjects every day to the state, of children to the church, and of saints to paradise ; and in order to soften a little the description which his brother had given of the dreadful torments reserved for those who were guilty of this sin, he told us, that their greatest punishment consisted in being deprived for ever of the object of their passions. It was impossible for incredulity to be carried farther than this ; therefore the preacher, after doing his best to refute the objections raised against his doctrine by his adversary, ended, by declaring that he deserved that God to punish him for his Epicurean principles, should suffer him to behold the state of one of these vicious souls.
This was doubtless the watch-word agreed upon between them ; for no sooner had the monk uttered these words, than we saw a monster issue from out the vestry, that I was for some time at a loss what to make of : it was a goat, which these reverend fathers had made choice of as the fittest representative of lewdness ; that he might play his part the better, they had rubbed the poor beast all over with pitch and brimstone, and other combustible matter ; and to give him still a more monstrous appearance, they had drest him up in a robe of fine gause, with all the other appurtenances of female attire. The whole congregation were struck with surprise at so odd a sight ; and the disputant, who had hitherto gloried in his incredulity, burst out into a loud laughter at it, but his tone was quick changed ; for a match being put to a fuzée, which was fixed to the creature's tail, in an instant he appeared all in flames, to the no small terror and confusion of the whole assembly.
We might perhaps have recovered from the first surprise, but the goat finding himself burnt, began to run up and down through the church, which was immediately filled with the most horrible shrieks and cries ; every one tumbling over another to get out at the door, thinking the devil himself was at their heels ; and indeed the uproar and confusion amongst us made the place resemble hell more than anything else.
All this while the poor beast continued jumping and leaping about at a dreadful rate, endeavouring to free himself from the fire that was consuming him : where-ever he came he spread terror and dismay, and such a smell of brimstone that almost suffocated us ; at length he got to the place where they kept the holy water, and jumping into it to cool himself, expired in a few moments ; which being seen by one of the congregation, he cried out with a loud voice, Vivat vivat, the devil is dead.
This joyful news made us all easy for a while, but our confusion was soon renewed, upon hearing that two ladies in the place had miscarried with the fright ; and that two others had been stifled in the throng. They were all four immediately carried out, and I knew one of them to be the lady of D. Pompeio, the lord of the manor. This melancholy sight so incensed the congregation against the missionaries, that they began to load them with curses and excrations. The reverend fathers finding matters grow so serious, and fearful lest the populace should proceed to extremities, hurried as fast as possible out of the church, and returned to their good friend the licentiate, where they imagined they should be secure from all further insults.
They were so indeed from the populace, but their reverences were not a little surprised, when about an hour afterwards they saw D. Pompeio enter the house with an officer of justice and a band of sbirris. D. Pompeio would certainly have sacrificed these wretches in the first transports of his fury, had he not been with-held by the officer, who, to pacify him, promised that he should instantly have justice done him, not only for the injury he had suffered by them in this affair, but likewise for the loss of the two thousand five hundred ducats, which his steward had refunded to them for his use ; and accordingly ordered his people to seize them directly, and convey them to the prison at Villaleda.
D. Castilmoro, who was greatly concerned at this accident, used all his endeavours to obtain some mercy for them, but in vain ; which when they saw, one of them thought to succeed better by offering a sum of money for his ransom : his companions followed his example, and drew out each a large purse full of gold, which they offered to the officer ; who, after taking it, put on a sterner air than before : Ah, ah ! said he, is it so ? I thought to have laid hold of you only as disturbers of the public peace, but I see now that what Signor Pompeio told me is true, and that you are all rogues and thieves ; ay, ay, this quantity of money is a plain proof of it.
The monks began to exclaim violently against this latter accusation, alledging in their excuse, that the money was what had been given them in alms for the poor during the course of their mission ; but the officer soon stopt their mouths, by ordering his people to take them away to prison ; and you, Sir, said he, addressing himself to D. Pompeio, will be pleased to take this money in part of what these venerable fathers have defrauded you of :-so saying, he took his leave, and marched off with the four missionaries.
Thus ended this curious mission, after having cost three persons their lives, and many others their health and limbs, without any advantage but what accrued to the curates and parish clerks of the neighbouring villages, who found a considerable increase in their christenings about that time nine months. Poor Castilmoro was so confounded and afflicted at this unhappy event, that I certainly thought it would have turned his brain, had we not out of charity kept him company for some time in order to divert his melancholy, by procuring him all the amusement in our power.
 XII.
Conclusion of the story of the Count de Redundo.
AFTER what had happened, it may easily be imagined, that we could not be very merry for that evening. Castilmoro was, as I have said before, almost inconsolable : my uncle, notwithstanding his antipathy to monks in general was, or at least appeared to be, a good deal concerned at the disgrace which had befel them, and had recourse to eating and drinking, as the best antidotes against melancholy. The rest of the company observed a solemn silence out of complainsance ; so that the whole conversation lay between the count and myself, which was not near so sprightly as it would have been under any other circumstances : but Castilmoro retiring after supper, in order to give a vent to his sorrows, and lament in private the misfortunes of his brethren, good humour began to return by degrees amongst us. By St. Anthony, said my uncle, addressing himself to the count, it is better living here than in your Simiania ; we have good eating and drinking at least, and are not in fear of these plaguy Tricorns. This speech put the whole company in mind of claiming the count's promise ; who accordingly gave us the conclusion of his adventures in the following terms.
As soon as I was safe on board the ship, whither my friendly beaver had conveyed me, I desired to see the captain, that I might make him my compliments : I was accordingly presented to him, and had no sooner told him who I was, than he very civilly led me down to the apartment of the viceroy of Brazil, who was then on board going to take possession of his government ; but how great was my joy and surprise, when I knew him to be the count de Marialva, one of my most intimate friends : I immediately flung myself about his neck, and embraced him tenderly, returning a thousand thanks to heaven for this happy encounter. The count himself was so astonished, that he was some few minutes before he could answer me ; at length recovering from his astonishment, O heavens ! cried he, pressing me in his arms, is it you my dearest friend, that I behold! You whom I and all Lisbon imagined to have perished in the waves ! by what happy chance was you preserved from the fatal end that befel your companions ? Alas, I have lamented you as dead for above six months ! I was even thinking of you the very instant you entered my apartment : judge than how great must be my surprise and joy at seeing you so unexpectedly-but I do the countess an injury in delaying so long to share it with her, who has often joined her tears to mine on your account, and will now take as great a part in my satisfaction.
With these words he conducted me to the countess's apartment, who was so surprised at seeing me, that she at first thought it had been my apparition ; but the count having brought her a little to herself, they both intreated me to sit down and give them a relation of my adventures, and the manner in which I was delivered from the disaster by which the rest of my companions perished. I accordingly gave them a full account of every thing that had befallen me, in the same manner as I have already done to this good company ; at which they could not sufficiently express their surprise. When I had finished my relation, they felicitated me on the miraculous escapes that I had had, and insisted that we should not part during the voyage ; the count at the same time ordering one of his own apartments to be made ready for me. Thus we past whole days together in the most social and friendly manner, which added to the tender and obliging assiduities of the count and his worthy lady, somewhat abated the edge of my grief.
This voyage was as prosperous as my former had been unhappy, and we arrived in safety at St. Salvador, without having met with the least accident by the way.
My intention when I left Lisbon was, to procure myself some settlement in the Brazils, where I might live without being an incumbrance to my friends. With this view I had taken with me all the ready money I was possessed of, which was lost when I was cast away. The count was acquainted with this circumstance, and in order to spare me the confusion that I must have been in with any other person, generously offered me his table, and a genteel apartment in his house, which I accepted for the present only, and till I could receive news from Portugal, whither I had written for a supply of money : as every one there thought me dead, I was a long time without receiving any answer ; would to heaven I had never had one ! The only news I received was, what I then thought but too true, the death of my daughter. I was almost as much affected with this loss, as I had been with that of my wife ; and I should certainly have followed those dear relations thro' excess of grief, but for the friendly cares of the generous count and his lady, who omitted nothing that they thought would administer to my comfort. In short, we there passed many years together in that delightful, social union, which is the true bond of friendship, and which very few of human kind are capable of tasting.
This happy union would in all probability have lasted during our lives, had not love, that tyrant of the heart, interposed to hinder it ; not contented with what he had already made me suffer, he resolved to make me once more his captive ; which he effected by the following accident.
The count having made a voyage to Portugal, at his return brought over with him the marchioness of Sardoal his sister-in-law, who could not resist the longing desire she had to see the countess. Among her women attendants was a young lady of incomparable beauty ; the sweetness of her temper soon gained her the heart of the countess, who made her her friend and confident. As I had frequent opportunities of seeing her with that lady, I soon felt that she was not indifferent to my heart ; but what I had already suffered for that fatal passion, made me resolve to use my utmost efforts to prevent myself from falling into the same snare for the future : I fled all occasions of seeing her, but in vain, for I found I carried her image deeply imprinted on my heart ; and what served to attach me the more to her, was a certain resemblance which I thought I perceived in her with my dearest Teresia, whom I had so tenderly loved : seduced by this flattering notion, I sought her company again in spite of myself ; I even observed that her beautiful eyes were frequently fixed upon mine, and with a tenderness which could only be attributed to sympathy, seemed to catch my sorrows, and dropt tears of compassion, which went to my very soul.
Such was the situation of us both, when one day finding myself alone with her, I ventured to ask her the cause of so extraordinary a behaviour : have I been unhappy enough, Madam, said I, to offend you in any thing ? The tears which I see you shed whenever I appear before you, make me fear it, and yet I do not know that I have given you the least cause of displeasure. Ah, Sir, replied Leonora (for that was the name by which she then went) how ill do you judge of my sentiments, if you believe that the tears I shed proceed from any dislike at the sight of you ! Alas ! they flow from a very different source ; but the natural modesty and reserve proper to be preserved by my sex forbid me to explain the real motives ; the emotion I feel at present, while I look on you, makes me apprehensive lest my heart should in spite of prudence discover itself. Permit me then, Sir, to withdraw and vent those tears elsewhere,
which you may perhaps still reproach me with as a fault : she quitted me with these words, and entered into the countess's apartment.
The confusion into which these words of her's threw me, was so great, that it took from me all power of following her, and I was so affected as to shed tears myself ; never had I felt myself in such a condition since the death of my dear Theresia. The count, who came in at that instant, perceived the disorder I was in ; What is the matter, my dear friend ? said he, embracing me ; you seem much moved ! Ah ! cried I, ask me not the cause ; it is such an one as you will never forgive ; leave me to weep in secret my own misfortunes, and content yourself with pitying your unhappy friend, whom perhaps you would no longer honour with that precious name, did you know what passes in his heart. The count said every thing that friendship could inspire him with to comfort me ; but seeing that all his endeavours proved vain, he quitted me and went into his wife's apartment, where he found Leonora with her face all bathed in tears. Surprised at the sight, he did not know at first what to think ; however, the friendship he had for me, and the young lady's known virtue, dispelled every injurious suspicion that might have otherwise arisen in his breast.
The abrupt departure of Leonora, and the care that she afterwards took to avoid me, was so far from lessening my passion for her, that it only served to make it burn the fiercer. The count was not long without perceiving this : my visits were now less frequent, and I did not unbosom myself to him as usual; from all which he conjectured, that I must have some engagements elsewhere, in which he was not deceived. Love is one of those passions which admits of no sharer, but will have the whole possession of the heart. Leonora was the mistress of mine, but I knew not whether I possessed her's in return. The count, who was particularly concerned to have this affair cleared up, made that discovery which I had so long and ardently wished. He had a private interview with Leonora on this subject, in which she frankly owned to him, that she felt for me what she had never felt for any man before ; adding, that however deep an impression I might have made on her heart, I had nothing to fear on her account ; for that her own virtue and the tender love she had for me, would never allow her to exceed the bounds of decency, and what she owed to her own sex. The count de Marialva was very ready to believe what she said, but as he was not unacquainted with the hearts of women, he did not choose to repose an implicit confidence in their words : therefore, to prevent any future bad consequences, he resolved to discover to me what he knew ; but how great was my joy, when I heard from his mouth that the beautiful Leonora really loved me ! The prudent advice my friend gave me on this occasion served only to increase my passion, which was now grown to such an height, as not only to have swallowed up the remembrance of my dear Theresia's loss, but even to make me believe, that I should taste with this lovely person all the happiness I had enjoyed in my first marriage. One thing however threw a considerable damp upon my hopes, which was, that upon report that had prevailed in Lisbon of my being certainly dead, my relations had taken possession of my fortune, so that I found myself out of a condition of providing for Leonora in a manner suitable to her merit, or my own inclination. I could see but one way to remove this obstacle, which was by taking her with me to Portugal, where my presence would be more than sufficient to recover all my fortune and effects.
When I made her this proposal she readily came into it, on condition that the marchioness and the countess would give their consent. Charmed with having so easily gained her consent, I ventured to
mention it one day to the count, who seemed greatly surprized at it : What, my dearest friend, cried he, are you then going to leave me ? have I unwittingly given you any cause of complaint ? what can so suddenly call you to Portugal ? My affairs, answered I ; you know that part of my fortune is already in the hands of others : your friendship has hitherto prevailed on you to supply all my wants, but I cannot without blushing continue any longer to be such a burthen to you ; I am resolved to recover my own, that I may have it in my power to repay some of the many obligations I lie under to you. You would not talk thus, replied the count, did you love as you have formerly done, but that happy time is no more, your heart is another's to whom you sacrifice me. I should certainly complain of this treatment, did I not know that friendship ought to give place to love ; nevertheless, I love you too well to with-hold from you my advice in relation to the step you are about to take. You love Leonora, my dear friend ; it is in vain to go about to deny it ; it is a long time since I have perceived this passion : I should be very far from blaming a passion, when founded on real merit ; Leonora is without doubt a very amiable person, but let not your passion carry you to do that which you will hereafter have a thousand reasons to repent of, as it is said you intend to make her your wife ; and your desire of going away with her seems to confirm this report ; and yet I cannot but entertain a better opinion of your judgment and prudence, than to think that you will rashly venture to do an action that will one cause you the utmost despair.
These words of the count's were so many poniards to my heart ; I begged him to explain himself, which he for a long time refused, till at length by my intreaties he consented. I now see, my dear friend, said he, that you love Leonora in reality, and think you may aspire to the possession of her without the fear of being refused : Leonora is without doubt a person formed to make any one happy for whom she has a passion ; she has beauty, virtue, and exalted sentiments; but you know the decorums to be observed by people of our rank, and that an error in alliance is seldom or never overlooked : I can venture to say that this would be the greatest you could possibly be guilty of : I know who Leonora is ; let it suffice then that i advise you as a true friend to weigh and think seriously on what you are about to do ; after that you have both of you full liberty from me to go to Europe whenever you please ; the only favour I have to ask in return, is, that you will never cease to love and remember me.
Nothing could equal my surprise at hearing the count talk in this manner ; I hardly knew at first what to think of it. However, the justice he had done to the charms and virtue of Leanora confirmed me in my love ; and I was so blinded with my passion, that I imagined he only spoke in this manner to deter me from my purpose, as being unwilling that his wife and sister should be deprived of so amiable a companion, for whom they had the greatest love and friendship ; but this did not appear a sufficient reason to me for debarring myself of the happiness of possessing her. Accordingly, I remained fixed in my resolution to embark with her in the first ship that was bound to Portugal, which we did in less than a fortnight afterwards ; and after a very favourable voyage arrived safe in Lisbon.
As my whole thoughts were upon marrying Leonora the instant I had settled my affairs, I lost no time in making my arrival known to my family. The first I applied to was D. Gonzalez de Tentayro, the same to whose care I had trusted my daughter at my leaving Lisbon, and who, on the report of my death, had taken possession of my fortune. It seems as if Providence had inspired with me this thought to save me from committing the most horrid of all crimes; I found him on his death bed just ready to expire. However, he had strength and understanding enough left to know me again. Ah ! my dear count, said he
to me with a dying voice; is it you I behold again ? What thanks do I owe to heaven, who has sent you here to receive my last breath, and to be informed by me of a secret that has long lain heavy on my conscience ! but before I reveal it to you, let me engage your promise that you will not revenge the injuries I have done to you on my poor children : Alas! they are guiltless, it is on me alone that your vengeance ought to fall, and you should have ample satisfaction did it please heaven to grant me longer life. I bound myself by an oath to do as he desired, promising to forgive whatever he might have done to injure me, and even to do every thing in my power to be of service to him. Alas ! he cried, I am unworthy of such goodness--My strength fails me--I have not power left to reveal to you my heinous crimes--Father Matthew de Cordosa, who has for a long time been my confident, and D. Manuel de Sousa, who has my last will in his hands, are the persons who will inform you of what the near approach of death prevents me from revealing to you myself. Farewel, dear count, I restore to you by my death those possessions which I have wrongfully kept from you : may you one day be blessed with the sight of your dear child.
He had no sooner uttered these words than he sunk down in his bed and expired. I went that very day to the Paulists convent to ask for the father whom Gonzales had mentioned to me, and begged him to acquaint me with the important secret which his friend had at his death given him permission to reveal to me. How little confidence is to be reposed in man ! The father at first loaded me with civilities ; but as soon as he heard my name, and that I was come to recover my estate out of the hands of those who had taken possession of it on a false report of my death, he intirely altered his behaviour, and with an ironical tone told me, that if that was all my business I might have spared myself the fatigue of so long a voyage. The count, said he, whose name you assume, has been dead above these fourteen years, so that if you had any designs upon his estate you should have thought of putting your project in execution before, for it is now somewhat of the latest. D. Gonzelez de Tentayro, who probably foresaw some trick of this kind, having very prudently provided against it, by giving that whole estate, and a part of his own, to our poor fathers of Paraguay. I am extremely sorry, Sir, added he, that you are come so late, but doubtless it was by the work of God, to prevent the poor ministers of the gospel from being deprived of so valuable a gift.
It would be difficult to express the rage this speech of the father's threw me into : had it been any one but a churchman who had treated me thus, his life should have been the immediate forfeiture of his insolence ; but the folly of mankind have given the monks a power of doing every thing with impunity. All that I had left to do therefore was, to inquire of him by what right they pretended to keep me out of my estate ? By right of a will, replied he with great coolness, which you shall see in proper time and place. I did not stay to make him any answer, but quitted him hastily, lest in the first emotion of my passion I should have been prompted to sacrifice him to my revenge. From thence I immediately repaired to the house of D. Manuel de Sousa, to whom I related every thing that had passed betwen the father and me ; at which he was so surprised that he could hardly give credit to it, but at length, be of good courage, Sir, said he, you have nothing to fear on that side, I am the only person intrusted with the last will of D. Gonzalez, which I know to be of a very different tenor ; besides, he has given me in charge to reveal a secret to you that cannot fail of giving you the highest satisfaction, which is, that your daughter is still living.
This comfortable news made me in an instant drop my rage against the monk Cordosa ; the recovery of my dear child giving me more joy than the loss of my fortune had resentment. I begged D. Manuel to inform me by what accident it happened that the news was spread of her death, and where I might fly to find her. In an house, said he, which it will not be very agreeable to you to see her, and know that she has been educated there ; but as she is yet young, your company and conversation may easily repair what is defective in her education : you must know, continued he, that D. Gonzalez has her brought up under a fictitious name in the house for poor orphans ; upon the news of your death, which we all believed true, this unnatural relation had her privately conveyed thither ; and to secure to himself the full possession of your fortune, gave out that she was dead. It is now upwards of fourteen years since she was first put into that house, where she would in all probability have remained for ever in a state of obscurity, but for the disorder which occasioned the death of D. Gonzales. Stung with remorse he sent to me while he was on his sick bed, and revealed the whole secret to me, making me promise to take her out of that hosue and re-instate her in the possession of her rights. You are now come to save me the trouble ; I willingly yield my office into the hands of a tender parent.
After D. Manuel had done speaking we went together to the orphan's house, where we inquired for my daughter by the name of Leonora ; the conformity of this name with that of the young lady, whom I was on the point of marrying, did not strike me at first ; but when the superior told D. Manuel that she had been taken out by the marchioness of Sardoal, who had carried her with her to the Brazils, I immediately discovered that I was already in possession of the precious treasure I was in search of, whose supposed loss had cost me so many tears. My joy at this happy event would have been much greater, had it not been damped by a rising remorse. I could not forebear blushing at the thoughts of having indulged too warm a passion for an object that ought to have been dear to me indeed, but in a different sense : but friendship for woman being so near a-kin to love, and that which I bore my dear Camilla (which is my daughter's real name) being the most sincere that could be felt, my heart confounding the sentiments made me take the one for the other. I now returned thanks to God, who in his goodness had stopped me on the brink of the precipice into which I was ready to fall ; and taking my leave of the superior and D. Manuel, I flew home to acquaint my dear Camilla with the happy tidings : she blushed as I had done at having given way to sentiments more tender than they should have been ; and we made a mutual promise to do penance for our error as soon as my affairs would permit of my being absent. But we were detained some time from putting it into execution by the avarice of the Paulists, which obliged me to commence a suit against them, where their knavery in the forging a false will being fully discovered, I was reinstated in the full possession of my fortune, which they out of their abundant charity would have with-held from me. As soon as this affair was decided, we both of us set out on a pilgramage to St. Jago de Compostella, to supplicate Almighty God to forgive us a crime, which, but for his preventing grace, had been carried to more enormous lengths.
This gentlemen, continued the count, is the true reason of our pilgrimage, and we earnestly intreat the assistance of your prayers, and those of every good christian, that we may meet with that pardon we are going in search of.
The whole company were so charmed at the count's relation, and the edifying piety that appeared in him and his amiable daughter, that they promised to a man to offer up their prayers to God for them ;
and D. Antonio assured the count, that he would for his part give him fifty masses, on condition that he would put his story into writing for him, so much was he delighted with it. This the count promised to do, and kept his word the next day ; and from this manuscript I have taken it. As it was now late in the evening the count and his daughter withdrew, but our honest curates staid to crack the other bottle, and they every one retired to bed.
END of the THIRD BOOK.

 I.
Rancio goes to Evora. His encounter by the way. A portrait of the Collegians. A story relating to them.
WE staid some time longer at Massilia ; but I began to be as weary of my situation now, as I had been pleased with it during the time that this mission lasted : this would not have been the case had the count de Redundo and his amiable daughter remained with us, but they left us the very next day. I should certainly have followed their example, had not complaisance for my uncle with-held me. However, chance threw an opportunity in my way which I was very ready to embrace : a few days after the missionaries had been sent to prison, the lady of D. Pompeio died of the miscarriage she got from the fright in the church, at which her husband, who was tenderly fond of her, was so enraged, that he determined to leave nothing undone to revenge himself on the monks who had been the authors of his misfortune ; and to this purpose applied himself to the corrigidor, to whom he told his story in so pathetic a manner, that this officer promised to prosecute them to the utmost ; and accordingly summoned a number of the inhabitants by name to give in their depositions against the missionaries.
This new accident redoubled Castilmoro's fears, and being apprehensive that I should be cited with the rest, and that I would not have courage enough to give a false oath to serve his brethren, agreed with D. Antonio that I should be sent out of the way. This was the very thing I wanted ; as we were but a little distance from Evora, and I had never seen that city nor its famous university, I answered Castilmoro, when he asked me what place I would chuse to go to, that I should be glad to take a journey thither. I commend your curiosity, replied the good licentiate ; and since you are desirous of visiting that city, I will give you letters of recommendation to some friends of mine there (of which I have a great number) who will take a pleasure in showing you every thing that is curious. I was highly pleased with this generous offer, and begged of him to put it in execution as speedily as possible, which he did the very next day, when Ambrose and I set out together for Evora.
We had got near two-thirds of the way, when I was suddenly surprised by a confused noise of
mens voices and the trampling of horses feet, and turning back to see what it might be, I discovered about thirty horsemen coming out of a little wood to our left-hand ; they appeared armed, and seemed to advance hastily toward the place where we were : I was greatly alarmed at their numbers, and took them for a gang of robbers, who were coming to fall on us : in order therefore to get away from them, if possible, I began to spur Castilmoro's mule, to put her upon the gallop ; but as if every thing that belonged to churchmen was to partake of their sluggishness, the resty beast would not budge a step farther ; seeing therefore that there were no hopes of avoiding them, we resolved to sell our lives as dear as possible, and drawing our swords, Ambrose and I put ourselves upon our guard, and waited for their coming up.
But we soon found we had no occasion for this precaution, for when they drew near to us we perceived them to be a company of young collegians, who were going like us to Evora, and who had no other arms than a large string of beads, which they were employed in telling as they rode along. If I was heartily frightened at the first sight of them, I now laughed as heartily at my folly ; as did Ambrose, who had been under no less apprehension than myself. Signor Ranucio, said he, these are the gentry that threw us into such a panic, are they not ? by St. Gregory, if we are never slain by any other weapons than what they carry about them, we shall have very devout deaths, and be sure of going to heaven into the bargain. She now found herself obliged to follow the same tract with this church-ambulant ; for my mule, which would not stir a step before, began now to set out in such a manner that there was no stopping him, being as I suppose highly pleased with his company. In order therefore to see if they were as much to my taste, I began a conversation with one of them ; but to my no small surprise found that it was impossible to get a single word out of them : I soon perceived that they were all so busied in telling their beads, that they had not leisure to make any answer ; accordingly I waited with patience till they had done ; after which they all remained profoundly silent for some time, which made me think that it was now my cue for speaking ; I therefore began to put some questions to the one nearest me, who made me no other reply than by putting his finger to his lips, which gave me to understand, that it was not permitted them to speak yet.
I now began to be heartily tired of this taciturnity, as was likewise my man Ambrose, who to divert himself fell to singing a catch not the most modest that can be imagined ; upon which an old licentiate, who seemed to be leader of the band, came up to him, and bid him to hold his tongue and not trouble their meditation : as ill placed as this affected devotion might appear to me, I could not nevertheless help approving a behaviour that I had not met with the like of in any of our churchmen before. We now kept our march in profound silence, till the sound of one of the bells in Evora, whither we were now drawing nigh, wrought a sudden change in the behaviour of my fellow-travellers, who to a man alighted from their horse, fell down on their knees, and began to repeat aloud the Ave Maria, for which the bell was then ringing : Ambrose and I would fain have continued our journey, and left our devout companions to themselves, but our cursed beasts could not be prevailed on to stir a step till the whole troop were in march again. And now the old curate gave them leave to speak, when in an instant they were as noisy and ludicrous as they had before been reserved and silent ; as I rode pretty close to him, I asked him whither he was conducting all these young people ? To Evora, replied he, where they are to be ordained to-morrow morning. As we now drew near the city I had not time to ask him any
more questions, only he told me that he was a country-curate of the neighbourhood, and having always had a great inclination as well as talents for the education and instruction of youth, the bishop of his diocese had given him permission to erect a little seminary in his parish, where he got together all the country lads he could meet with in the parishes round, and gave them instruction for six months, at the end of which time he carried them to the bishop, who immediately put them into orders. This curious account made me believe that either the curate must be a man of surprising talents, or that his pupils were great ignoramuses.
It was about nine at night when we got into Evora, and as it was too late for the good licentiate to carry his holy recruits to the great seminary, he made them alight at the first inn in the town, and tho' I had letters of recommendation from Castilmoro to several of the principal inhabitants of the place, yet curiosity made me resolve to take up my quarters in another public-house within a few doors of that where they had set up. As I was a little fatigued, I ordered my supper to be got ready immediately, and retired to my chamber soon afterwards, with an intention of going to bed ; but calling to mind some orders that I had forgotten to give my servant, I came down stairs again, and went into the kitchen in search of him, where to my great astonishment I found two spits full of different kinds of game getting ready with all expedition ; I could not help asking the landlord in a kind of surprise, whether he did not know that it was a fast-day ? Ah, very well surely, said he, and therefore made some difficulty about the dressing these things, but a set of young clergymen here, for whom they are designed, have demonstrated to me very clearly that travellers are exempted from a rigorous observance of the rules of the church ; and as they ought to understand these matters better than us you know, why I consented, and so here are the things getting ready for their supper. I was on the point of shewing him that he was in an error, when I saw three or four of my fellow-travellers enter the kitchen, who seemed a good deal surprised at meeting with me there : we seldom to love to have those for witnesses of our real vices, that have been so of our pretended virtues. The fear of meeting with a brotherly reprimand made them hasten up to their apartments as soon as possible ; but not without ordering the landlord to send them up their supper with all possible speed. Seeing such great preparations, I had the curiosity to ask the landlord how many guests he expected ; twenty, said he, and what is better than all, is, that their superior not being with them, they intended to enjoy themselves thoroughly : the good man it seems not being able to find lodging sufficient for his whole troop, had left these to themselves, as being those whose conduct he could most rely on, and indeed they were the very persons who appeared the most devout at the recital of the rosary.
I withdrew to my own apartment, not to disturb the diversion that was going on, or rather not to be a witness to what would only have given me scandal ; but unluckily for me, they had ordered their supper to be served up in the very room adjoining to mine, and which was divided only by a thin deal partition, so that I could hear every word they said. After having seated themselves they began their mysteries, by ordering sixty bottles of the best wine the house could afford ; viz. three bottles a-piece ; upon which one of the company had the impiety to observe, that he was always fond of the number in the Trinity. Supper was presently served up, and the conversation beginning to grow a little serious and less noisy, I, who had been heartily fatigued by the jade of a mule of Castilmoro's, was glad to lay hold of that opportunity to compose myself to rest.
In less than an hour's time however the wine beginning to operate on the brains of our young collegians, they fell a singing and roaring with all their might, and talking in the most loose and dissolute manner. From words they proceeded to actions, and one of them having given the company the slip, followed one of the maids that waited at table to the top of the stairs, where he laid hold of her and offered some indecencies, at which the wench being incensed, and desirous of getting rid of so troublesome a companion, began to cry out as loud as she could : the noise she made wakened me out of my sleep ; upon which I jumped up, and laying hold of my sword ran out of the door, and got just time enough to the stair-case to save the poor girl from his brutal violence. The surprise he was struck with at seeing me, made him hastily quit his prize and run into the room where the rest of him companions were, where he imagined himself safe from my pursuit ; but I followed him close, not so much with any design of using him ill, as to prevail upon the rest of his companions to make less noise, and suffer me to get some sleep. They seeing me enter the room with my drawn sword in my hand, were frightened out of their wits, taking it for granted that I was come to put them to death ; and as most churchmen are naturally cowards, they ran for shelter into their several apartments, and left me master of the field of battle. Seeing them all gone, I locked the door upon them, and taking the key with me, I retired once more to my bed, where I passed the remainder of the night tolerably quiet.
 II.
Ranucio's reception by doctor Lanternez. A portrait of the clergy in Portugal. The house of the doctors of Evora. The admission of a young doctor. A very curious and interesting disputation : what passed on the occasion.
MY first business the next morning was to wait upon the doctor to whom Castilmoro had directed me, who was called Don Lanternez de Castilla. As soon as I had acquainted him with the person who recommended me to him, he loaded me with civilities, and insisted upon introducing me to his brother the doctor of laws, upon which he conducted me into his closet, where we found him in very agreeable company : it was a young abbess who had come to consult him about a law-suit, that her community had engaged in against her. Finding him engaged, I was obliged to make my visit shorter than I should otherwise in decency have done; and after the first ceremonies were over I rose and took my leave, leaving him alone with the young abbess, in whose cause he seemed to interest himself very warmly ; and indeed it was no more than what she deserved ; for I do not remember to have seen a more accomplished beauty : in short, I was greatly struck with her charms, and could not forbear inquiring of Lanternez, what cause of complaint so amiable a person could have given to her community ? Good ! cause of complaint, cried Lanternez : why I find you know little about women, and what jealousy will make them do ! It is a dreadful grievance with that sex I can tell you to see another handsome ; the pretty abbess you saw is an example of this ; her nuns have not been able to bear with any patience the charms that robbed them of the homage of all the young nobility : in order to be revenged on her, they have resolved, if possible, to get her abbey taken from her ; and with that view have accused her of squandering the revenues of the society ; and tho' she has clearly proved the falsity of the allegation, yet they are resolved to continue to persecute her. However, her beauty will not fail of making friends of her judges. If so, replied I, why have they not already decided the cause in her favour ? Why, between you and I, answered Lanternez, the pretty abbess is in no great hurry to have this matter decided, as she is all this time dispensed from the confinement of a cloister, and the judges themselves, who make handsome pickings from both parties, do not care how long it lasts. The conversation then turned on other subjects, which kept us till near dinnertime, when I was for taking my leave, but the good doctor would by no means suffer me to go, and I did not take many intreaties : we had an elegant entertainment and plenty of good wine ; we tossed off several bumpers to the healths of his good friends Castilmoro and my uncle Don Antonio, and should not have readily risen from table till we had offered ample libations to the god of wine ; but Lanternez was obliged, as he told me, to be present at the admission of a young doctor who was to take his degree that afternoon, and to which he offered to introduce me. This was an offer I would by no means let slip, and accordingly accompanied him to the college where the ceremony was to be performed. It was a large and spacious house, of a plain but noble structure ; the only fault I found in it was, that the person who had caused it to be built, had had the vanity to place his arms in every part of it even to the very gutters. The chapel is a master-piece of architecture, but the inside is by no means answerable to the magnificence of the front, being quite plain and with very few ornaments, and those the most common and ordinary : I could not help being surprised at this, and asked Lanternez the reason
of it. There is a very natural one, replied he ; all the pompous trappings that you see in our churches, are not placed there so much in honour of God, as to attract the eyes of the people, and especially the women, who are above all others fond of luxury and shew. It is for this reason, that the monks, who are always willing to draw as many female votaries about them as they can, are so very careful to keep their churches neat and handsome, and take all opportunities of making a display of the rich gifts they have received from the devotion or folly of their benefactors, which seldom fails of prompting the beholders to follow the examples set before their eyes : this artifice has succeeded but too well with the good fathers ; as for us, who open our chapels only once a year for the people, we are content to worship God in spirit and in truth, without running into that luxury and extravagance, which tends rather to displease him than contribute to his glory. This observation of the doctor's appeared to me reasonable, and worthy of the good man and the christian. From the chapel we went into the library, which appeared to me to be a very fine one, but the books seemed to be covered with dust, which made me conclude that the doctors did not trouble this apartment very frequently.
From the library we descended into a large and very spacious hall, where we found about two hundred doctors assembled in their furred robes, which at my first entrance put me in mind of the great Jewish sanhedrim. The ceremony was already pretty far advanced, and had been opened by a thesis which had been maintained by the candidate, of which I had a copy put into my hands. It was dedicated to the only son of prince Albanius, and divided into four sections. The first was taken up with a detail of the charms and perfections of that monstrous prince, whom the candidate had erected into a god, that, according to him, all the world ought to bow down and worship under pain of everlasting damnation. The second division was equally interesting and convincing ; it turned upon the immaculate conception, which new mystery he endeavoured to prove, by all the arguments in theology, to be as true and worthy of belief as any other in religion, and that St. Barnard and those popes who had opposed it at its first promulgation, had lived and died in heresy, and as such were infallibly damned ; but what was more curious than all the rest was, that the good candidate pretended to demonstrate anatomically to all unbelievers, the manner in which this immaculate conception was brought about. The third section was employed in proving the new dogma of the possibility of a state of incorrupt nature. Here the young doctor understood to demonstrate, that God might with all justice condemn a creature however innocent ; adding, that those who died in original sin were not damned so much for that sin, as those they might have committed had they lived. The fourth and last section treated of humanity, and this appeared to me to be the young doctor's fort.
The oddity of this disputation made me regret not having been present at its beginning, as I should have been glad to have heard how the candidate would have answered the arguments that might have been brought against him, for he seemed to defend himself very well while I was present, which surprised me not a little, as some of them appeared pretty puzzling ; however, my surprise soon ceased upon being informed that the objections had been all communicated to him before hand. This however, was not the case with some objections which were soon after brought against him by a Cordelier, who owed him a grudge on account of an old dispute subsisting between them. It seems the young doctor had formerly reproached the monk with his lazy life, and proved to him from authority, that the bread eaten by him and his fraternity did not belong to them but to the pope ; the monk to be revenged on him, now
began to attack him on the pretended perfections of prince Albanius's son ; and as the young doctor had not had any previous notice of this argument to be brought against him, he was unable to make any answer to the objections of his adversary, who followed his strokes so closely, that the president of the assembly found it necessary to interpose in person : the monk, however, in no wise daunted, reiterated his objections with such strength of argument, that the president himself had not a word left to say, but in a violent passion took off his cap and threw it at him, and here I could not help admiring the great coolness and moderation of the monk, who was the only one of his fraternity that I had ever seen master of himself in a dispute of such importance ; but he, contented with the victory he had gained, forbore coming to blows with his adversary, which I was told had frequently been the case amongst them on the like occasions. However, this little rub did not prevent Don Carcassio (for that was the name of the young doctor) from being admitted to his degree by general voice, which could not fail of giving me a very high idea of the University of Evora.
 III.
Ranucio returns to Massilia. An encounter on the road. The story of Don Judas de Centomanes.
I MADE a stay of some few days longer at Evora, in order to satisfy my curiosity with all that was worth beholding in tht town ; and where I found the women as great coquets, the men as great fops and blockheads, and the clergy and monks as ignorant and superstitious as at Lisbon ; so that finding nothing in that place, but what I had every day met with in Lisbon, I took my leave of doctor Lanternez, after returning him thanks for all his civilities, and set out on my way for Massilia, were at my return I found the finishing hand had been put to the affair of our missionaries. They had been delivered over by the civil power into the hands of their superiors, who had demanded them with a promise of making them suffer the punishments due to their crimes. D. Castilmoro was so charmed with their meeting with such an happy deliverance, that he had caused Te Deum to be sung in his church by way of thanksgiving. As we were now no longer under any apprehension of his running mad on this account, my uncle and I returned to his house, where I staid some few days, after which I set out again for Lisbon.
It is a just remark, that the most singular adventures are generally met with upon a journey : I had two of so extraordinary and different a kind, that I am persuaded the reader will not be displeased at my giving them a place here. The first was in the person of a Spanish gentleman, who was riding gently along the road and singing to himself ; I was so pleased with his voice, that I stopt my mule some time to listen to him ; when he came up to me I told him I was going to Lisbon, where I should be glad to do him any little service in my power. Signor, said he, I take you at your word, but before I inform you of the want I am in of your assistance, give me leave to ask you, if I can safely trust you with a secret ? I made answer, that he might safely repose a confidence in me, and that I should remember what he told me, only so far as was necessary to render him a service ; after this assurance the Castilian addressed me as follows:
You may imagine, perhaps, Sir, that you see in me only a common gentleman, but in that you are mistaken : in me you behold at once a married man, a monk, a priest, a grand-vicar, an official, and to sum up the whole, a comedian. I could not help smiling at this conclusion, and thought at first that the man had been mad, and fixed my eyes attentively on his to observe if possible any symptoms of that kind in them. You look at me, Sir, said he, and smile, as if you thought me out of my senses ; but I assure you I tell you nothing but what is strictly true, as I will presently convince you, if you will permit me to relate the circumstances of my life : it is a diversion that I am willing to give you, in order to make your journey appear less tedious to you.
D. Francesco de Cenomanes my father, continued the Spaniard, after having brought me up according to his own fancy, that is to say very badly, resolved to have me married as soon as possible, that he might not have the mortification of feeling his race extinct, of which I was the only surviving male ; he therefore got me a wife by that time I had attained my fifteenth year. You must doubtless know what a young person is capable of at those years ; accordingly, I was so far from thinking how to fulfill the essential duties of the married state, that I thought of nothing but those which were of the least account. Thrice had the good man the satisfaction to see his name and family rescued from oblivion
during the three first years I led a married life ; but he had all the pleasure to himself, for the uneasinesses inseparable from the state of wedlock began to get possession of me, and soon made me heartily weary of it ! As I had been forced into it at an age when I was not the master of my own actions, I thought I might without scruple quit it when I pleased ; accordingly, one fine morning I left my wife and children, and repaired incog. to the monastary of the Capucins of Seguença, who admitted me amongst them as a novice, and gave me the habit. The great distance I was at from home, and my extreme youth covered me from all suspicion. No one to have seen me would have taken me for the father of three children, and you may be sure I was careful to keep my own counsel ; after some time I was admitted to make my profession, which I did with great solemnity.
I had been led to take this step purely from idleness, and a dislike to the state of life my friends had made me embrace ; but I soon found I had fallen out of the frying pan into the fire, as they say ; for the good fathers, perceiving the defects in my education, and finding a disposition in me for study, resolved to cultivate it. I in vain endeavoured to excuse myself by affecting stupidity ; the more of a dunce I appeared, the more proper they thought me for a great scholar of their order ; accordingly I was put to school, where, thanks to good discipline, I made so great a progress that at the end of three years I was found fit for receiving holy orders, with which I was invested at the age of twenty-two years, agreeable to a privilege granted to those fathers, founded probably on the supposition, that piety and knowledge come to maturity sooner with them than with the rest of mankind.
As they had raised me to the priesthood only with a view to make me serviceable to the convent, they immediately employed me in preaching. I held forth at first in the villages and little country towns, from thence I went into the market towns, and at length exhibited in the largest cities. Nature had endowed me with a good assurance and a surprising memory ; with these talents I mounted the pulpits of the most celebrated preachers with as much boldness and unconcern, as if I had been accustomed to it all my life, and that my sermons were the most eloquent in the world. In short, my qualifications, whether real or imaginary, gained me so much reputation, that the bishop of the diocese sent for me to preach in his cathedral. My impudence standing me in the stead of merit, I made no hesitation to comply with his request, and made my appearance on that grand theatre, where I had the honour to please not only the canons, but, without vanity be it said, even the bishop himself, who not contented with hearing me in the pulpit was desirous of seeing whether I was as deep learnt in reality as I appeared to be by my discourses ; and for that purpose assigned me an apartment in his palace, where I might be nearer at hand for him to converse with me now-and-then. In the course of our conferences the worthy prelate was so delighted with me, that in order to bind me wholly to his service, he offered to make me one of his grand-vicars, which place however I would not accept till I had first obtained the permission of my superiors.
I acquitted myself so well to his liking in this my new employment, that he soon after bestowed that of official on me, which I accepted with so much the greater pleasure, as it was by far the most lucrative, notwithstanding my having made a vow of poverty : the benefactions and gratuities which I found annexed to the facerdotal function, made such an impression on me, that I could not forbear fingering a little now-and-then to supply my own private pleasures. Increase of opportunities only served to increase my avarice, till at length, by overdoing it, I lost at once my place and my profits ; this happened as follows:
Among the friends that the place of grand-vicar had gained me, was a fat prior, who owed the whole of his fortune to me : this man having fallen dangerously ill, sent to acquaint me with the condition he was in, begging at the same time that I would come and see him ; I flew to him upon the first summons, and put on an appearance of such deep sorrow, that he himself could not forbear being affected with. He embraced me with the utmost tenderness, and as a proof of his gratitude for my friendship and the services I had done him, made me an offer of resigning his living in my favour. I would not hear a word of it at first, but seeing him preparing to draw up the deed, I yielded to his intreaties, promising him at the same time, that if heaven restored him to health, which I earnestly prayed for, I would instantly restore it to him again. Alas ! poor man, he did not give me the trouble, for he died a very few days afterwards. This sudden accident would in all probability have rendered my schemes abortive, had not I, from my perfect knowledge of churchmen, who are always attentive to the death of another, when there is a fat living in the case, resolved to keep the prior's death a secret till I could hear from Rome ; and by the help of some money well applied, I prevailed on the physician and servants of the deceased to favour the deceit, and give it out that he was still alive.
But, alas ! I might have spared all these precautions, for his death was already universally known, but I thought it a secret to every one but myself. I immediately took possession of th e priory, after which I returned to my attendance on my good bishop, with whom I found that somebody had been tampering not much to my advantage, and fortune was now preparing to shew me a new turn of her wheel ; for at my return I found that a cursed indultery, who new as well as myself when the prior had died, had obtained his living, and was gone to put himself in possession of it, when I had made myself the most sure of it. Nothing was left now but to battle for it ; and as charity is not one of the most prevalent virtues with two people who are variance with each other, this worthy gentleman published a memorial, in which he gave a detail of my life, with all its attendant circumstances : I had not a stock of impudence great enough to bear up against facts so authenticated, and therefore took the resolution to quit the kingdom while I was well, and retire into Portugal ; and in a good hour I did it, for that very day an order was issued for apprehending me ; but my flight did not put a stop to further proceedings ; for the affair was carried on with such eagerness, that notwithstanding my being a monk, a priest, a grand-vicar, and what is more an official ; I was condemned to be hanged, which sentence was executed upon my effigies as my person was very luckily out of their reach. Thus, Sir, continued Cenomanes, thus finished my glorious career, you may easily imagine the situation I was in after so dreadful a catastrophe. Nothing now remained of all my former greatness, and I had been inevitably ruined, but for that happy stock of assurance which was the last thing to forsake me.
As I had belonged to an order which placed its greatest glory in supplying its wants by begging or any other means that offered, I stuck close to my old occupation, and fell to exercising the employment of a parasite. I first began by frequenting the tables of wealthy citizens, where I kept my post for some time, but unhappily my having been a grand-vicar had made me a little too delicate, so that I left them and went to the spruce Abbée's, whose way of living I knew to be somewhat better, and put on all the airs that I thought most likely to ingratiate me with them. Self-sufficiency, giddiness, debauchery, eternal prating, and empty noise, were qualifications that I knew so well how to copy from the great originals set before me, that I soon worked myself into the esteem and confidence of these
gentlemen, insomuch that there was not an entertainment or a debauch in which I was not made of the party, and considered as the life of the whole ; but the greatest part of my patrons dropping off daily, either in their healths or fortunes, I soon found that instead of gaining any thing by them, I was every day growing poorer and poorer.
I saw no appearance of extricating myself from this miserable situation ; when chance threw in my way D. Gusman d'Oricalco, one of my countrymen ; we were both of us not a little surprized at such an unexpected meeting, after having been above twelve years without seeing each other ; we embraced very ardently, when D. Gusman, by way of renewing our acquaintance, took me home to dinner with him ; never did any thing happen more fortunately for me, I not having eat a morsel for two days ; when we were at table D. Gusman asked me a thousand questions, to which I answered only by monosyllables, being wholly intent upon satisfying the cravings of my appetite. After this necessary piece of employment was over, i found myself more at leisure to give and inquire after news, and began by asking after my wife and children. Your children, said he, are all three of them dead, and your dear wife thinking you so too, has married again, and has three more children. The match has been a very advantageous one to her, the man who married her being extremely rich, therefore I would advise you, continued he, to return home again, where in all probability you will find the means of gaining a much better situation than that in which I at present see you.
My friend Gusman would hardly have made me such a proposal, had he known the reasons that obliged me to quit the kingdom of Castile, but I soon informed him of them, not concealing the least circumstance of my life, since my leaving my family. Upon my soul, my dear Cenomanes, said he, thy adventures would make an excellent romance ; there is nothing wanting to make it complete, but putting in execution a project that is just come into my head, which I am persuaded will not appear despicable to you : have you preserved that fine voice you had when I saw you last ? Upon this I began to sing by way of an answer to his question, in which I acquitted myself intirely to his satisfaction. Good God ! cried he, is it possible that with such a talent you should be reduced to the situation I now behold you in ? How long ago would I have extricated you from it, had I but been happy enough to have met with you : however it is not yet too late, and if you will engage in my company, depend upon it you shall have no reason to repent. This speech and the richness of his dress made me imagine that he was in the army, and wanted to inlist me for the service; I intimated as much to him, he laughed very heartily at my mistake, and after telling me that he was manager to the country opera, the performers of which were just arrived in town, he repeated his proposal of my entering into the company.
Any means of living are acceptable when one is destitute of all others : this was exactly my case; so that I made no hesitation to accept his offer, and was accordingly inrolled in the company; from a capuchin you now see me become a comedian. A few good lessons in the theory of music soon put me in a capacity of playing some of the under parts, from whence I quickly succeeded to the principal ones. The excellence of my voice, and my pleasing manner of declamation, in which I retained nothing of the monkish whine, soon acquired me as many admirers as hearers. In short, I was very well pleased with my new profession, in which I should probably have continued the remainder of my days, had not our manager thought proper one fine morning to decamp with our strong box. This untoward accident having made it impossible for the company to support themselves any longer, we were obliged to
separate, and every one take his chance. As for me I resolved for Lisbon, where I am in hopes that the royal academy of music will do me the justice and favour to receive me amongst them. You, Sir, are without doubt acquainted with some of those gentlemen, and it may be greatly in your power to assist me if you would interest yourself in my behalf.
I did not know which to admire more in Cenomanes ; the oddity of his adventure, or the imprudence of his conduct. Is it possible, I thought to myself while he was speaking, that a man who does not appear to be a fool, should be so unwise as to trust a stranger with such a secret as would put it in his power to hang him the next hour? But heaven knows such a thought was far from my mind ; on the contrary I found myself inclinable to do him all the service in my power; but I could by no means comply with his last demand : I represented to him how unworthy the profession he had lately embraced was to one of his character or function. Indeed, replied I, if you was to desire me to get you admitted into the patriarch's band, I might possibly use my interest for you, as being an employ more befitting you. The mouth of a priest should be dedicated wholly to the praises of God ; whereas you would continue to prophane your's by singing those of the devil : I would have continued, but that I found my fellow-traveller was by no means pleased with this piece of morality ; so true is it that devotion frequently meets with the greatest of enemies in those who have, for their whole lives, been employed in preaching it to others.
 IV.
Sequal of the story of Don Cenomanes. Ranucio has another encounter.
CENOMANES finding that I did not enter so warmly into his interests as he had flattered himself I should, began to be heartily vexed that he intrusted me with the knowledge of his adventures, and earnestly begged of me that I would not speak of them to any one, especially at Lisbon, where the inquisition would assuredly lay hold of him if ever they came to their ears. I gave him my promise of secrecy, and this made us pretty good friends during the rest of the journey, which by this time grew very near to a conclusion, for we were already within sight of Silveyra, where I had resolved to drop my companion ; but a fresh encounter saved me the trouble of taking my leave of him.
We were now less than a mile of the town, when we found ourselves on a sudden accosted in the road by a large body of Ibirri, who were conveying one they had in custody to prison ; their great number prevented me at first from seeing what sort of a person it was. As for Cenomanes, he was struck with a violent panic at the first sight of such a numerous body of soldiers, and thinking no less than that they were come in pursuit of him, he set spurs to his horse and rode away as if they had been all at his heels. As the part of the road where I then happened to be was very narrow, I was obliged to wait till the whole troop went by me. By their number I imagined no less than that they were guarding a large gang of robbers that had for some time past infested the country, and after which a diligent search had been
long made to no purpose ; but what was my surprize, when in the room of those wretches I thought to behold, I saw only a poor nun mounted on a wretched mule, and surrounded by this numerous troop ; her veil being drawn prevented me from seeing her face ; but the posture she was in, and the sighs that continually came from her, made me conceive that she must be in great distress.
While I was making some reflections on a sight that had so moved my compassion, I discerned in the midst of the soldiery a man whom I knew to be one Vulpez de Tapino, a commissary of the holy office, and one who would have been an honest enough man, but for his immoderate love of gain, which put him upon sacrificing every thing to the view of making his fortune, not respecting honesty itself. As I had seen him once before at a person's house of my acquaintance, it was enough to determine me to accost him, and inquire of him whither he was bound ? I am going to Silveyra, Signore, replied he, and if I am not mistaken you are going thither too by the road I met you in ; if so I should be glad of the favour of your company. I was already too much interested in the fate of his unhappy prisoner, to let slip so fine an opportunity of informing myself concerning her, However I could get nothing more out of the commissary during the time we rode together, than that it was a wicked hussy of a nun, whom he had orders to carry to a certain convent in Lisbon till the inquisition could call her to her trial.
When we got to Silveyra, after having rested ourselves awhile, I begged the favour of him to let me have a sight of his prisoner, which he very compliantly granted me, not thinking a visit of this nature would be attended with any consequences, and conducted me into the room where she was. At my entrance I found the poor creature so overcome with the fatigue and ill usage she had undergone, that she had not strength enough to rise and return my salute ; but what surprized me the most was, that she made no manner of answer to the compliment of condolence I made her on her situation. I attributed this at first to the great dejection of hier spirits, and continued to address her in Portuguese, to which she made no other answer than by uttering a few words in Italian, which gave me to understand that she was a stranger to our language ; upon which, as I was perfectly master of hers, I repeated in Italian what I had before said to her in Portuguese. She seemed deeply sensible of my expressions of concern, and replied to them in a manner that affected me not a little. I made her offers of service, and begged her to let me know in which I could be useful to her. Alas ! Sir, replied she, with a deep sigh, why should you interest yourself in my misfortunes, or of what assistance can you be to a wretched maiden, who has languished out seven long years in the most dreadful captivity, from which she has been lately released, only to suffer, if possible, more cruel torments ? Leave me to endure my fate alone, Sir, nor by a too rash act of generosity and humanity, incur the danger of sharing the same miseries ; you know not in whose hands I am, and that it is looked upon as an unpardonable crime, even to intercede for the unhappy wretches that are dragging to their tribunal. I am perfectly well acquainted, madam, answered I, with all their acts of injustice and oppression; but you are not as yet before them, and Providence may possibly raise means for delivering you from your persecutors ; let me only request of you to inform me of the nature of your misfortunes, and I will not leave any possible means untried for rescuing you from the deplorable situation in which I now behold you. If nothing more is required towards that, Sir, said she, than to acquaint you with the history of my life, it will be an easy matter for me to give you that satisfaction ; but prepare yourself to hear things which will strike you with the greater horror, as they
were acted against me by people who, of all others, you would think the least capable of such villany and barbarity.
 V.
The story of Angelica, and the porrid persecutions she underwent.
I AM by birth, an Italian, as you may perceive by my tongue ; with which, Sir, you seem well acquainted : I was born at Bologna, of parents who were of no small distinction in the state, and my name is Angelica Virtuosi : tho' my birth entitled me to hold a considerable rank in life, which indeed was the wish of my parents, yet the inclination I found in myself to a life of religious retirement, outweighed all other considerations, and at the age of twenty years, I received the veil from the hands of our archbishop. Fatal ćra ! from which I may date all the misfortunes of my life. What, Madam, said I, interrupting her with some warmth, do you then repent of having embraced that happy state ? God forbid, Sir, replied the fair Angelica ; on the contrary, my only comfort amidst the evils I have endured, is, that I have not merited them by any infidelity, either in thought or deed, to the heavenly spouse to whom I gave my heart and all its faculties, at the foot of his holy altar ; but could it ever have been supposed that the very person who received that sacred oath from me, should be the first to urge me to a violation of it ? and yet so it happened. Forgive me, Sir, if in what I am about to say, I should sometimes appear wanting in that respect and veneration I owe our holy church, by revealing the scandalous behaviour of her ministers, but besides that she is in no case answerable for the faults of her children ; it is a testimony I owe to truth and my own innocence : yes, Sir, the very man who received my vows, was the first who sought to make me break them, as I shall now proceed to relate to you.
As nature had given me some little share of beauty, the prelate was so struck with it during his performing the ceremony of my admission, that he instantly conceived a violent passion for me, which he was not long without declaring, for the very next day, under pretence of making me a spiritual visit, he entertained me all the time with the shameless avowal of his love ; imagine, Sir, what must have been my astonishment at hearing such language from the mouth of an archbishop ; I was struck with such horror at it, that I instantly flew from his presence to avoid treating him in a manner unbecoming the respect due to the sacred character he bore. However, the abruptness of my behaviour did not prevent him from renewing his visit a few days afterwards. I at first refused to come into his company, but he prevailed with the superior to join her intreaties, finding his own ineffectual ; and I was at length prevailed upon, in the persuasion that he would not be indiscreet enough to discover his wicked passion before a third person ; but alas, how I was mistaken in him ! I no sooner made my appearance than his lascivious eyes, which were eternally fixed on mine, as if he could never satisfy himself enough with looking at me, proved but too plainly that my refusal had only served to inflame his wicked desires instead of damping them. In short, he desired the superior in my hearing, to procure him more frequent
opportunities of seeing and conversing with me, with which she readily complied, commanding me always to give my attendance whenever his grace should think fit to send for me, and this in his presence.
I had my reasons for not giving her an absolute refusal at that time ; but upon the next visit the archbishop made to me, I would by no means go near him. He still continued his visits and messages, and I as constantly avoided his company ; at length, tired out with my obstinate refusal, he fell upon a method only worthy of an incensed churchman, which was to accuse me of a pretended new kind of heresy and sending for my superior, charged her to have a strict eye upon me, that I should not infect the rest of the society with my anti-christian principles, and to that purpose desired her to confine me closely to my cell for some time, after which, if they did not perceive a change, other measures should be taken.
Credulity has been always a principal fault in our sex, and although the superior had never perceived any thing, either in my behaviour or discourse, that could give her the least reason to suspect me guilty of what was laid to my charge, yet the blind deference she paid to the prelate made her readily comply with his orders, and I was committed close prisoner to my cell for a fortnight, at the end of which time the superior again laid her injunctions on me to allow of the prelate's visits ; but as I still continued obstinate in my refusal, I was ordered to be shut up in the prison belonging to the monastery, and to receive the discipline twice a day. This treatment I suffered patiently for some time, but finding that my sufferings were not likely to have any mitigation, I ventured to ask the superior one day what I had been guilty of to deserve this treatment ? Ah, you know but too well, idle and perverse girl as you are, cried she ; and if you was not completely hardened in wickedness you would have submitted, and would own your fault long before this. You imagined, I suppose, to have drawn away the rest of the society ; and for what I know you might have succeeded in your wicked design, had not his grace had the goodness to give me notice of it, and-What, Madam, said I, is it by the archbishop's orders that I suffer this treatment ? Yes, indeed, it is, replied she ; and you are much indebted to him for his goodness that he did not immediately give you up to the holy inquisition to be burnt alive, as you deserve. I have great obligations to him truly, said I; but pray, Madam to so good to inform his grace from me, that if he continues to torment me in this manner, I may possibly acquaint the inquisition with some circumstances which may draw the same punishment upon him with which he is pleased to threaten me.
My answer was soon carried to the archbishop, who seeing me thus obstinately bent against him, in an instant found his love converted into fury, and vowed to prevent his own ruin by bringing about mine ; and to succeed the better in this design, he sent to Rome for a permission to remove me into another house of our order at Badajox.
The bishop of that place, who had been pitched upon him of Bologna to be the minister of his vengeance, was one of those ignorant people, who from a fond and mistaken zeal are ever ready to commit the most crying injustice. As soon as I arrived in his territories he was for sending me directly to the inquisition, but after a little reflection thought it would be best to write to his brother of Bologna, to know his will upon the subject : the archbishop fearing that if I was brought before the inquisition, I might reveal some things which he would rather have kept secret, wrote back to him desiring him by no means to think of sending me thither, but that he was at full liberty to make me suffer in the convent the usual punishments inflicted on criminals like myself by that tribunal. His orders were strictly obeyed,
and I was thrown into the prison of the monastery, where I lay for six months ; at the end of which time, I was taken out to appear before the bishop, who asked me if I was a little come to myself, and would resolve to abjure my heretical opinions ? You may easily imagine how much I was astonished at such a question. I replied, that I had never entertained a thought contradictory to the established tenets of our holy church ; his lordship did not deign to make me any answer to this, but ordered me back again to my dungeon for six months more, with an order to retrench a certain part of my food every week, as the only means to cure me speedily and effectually of my obstinacy ; for it is not just, added he, that a bad sheep should be as well fed as the rest of the flock that are sound.
His orders were so punctually complied with, that before the term of my imprisonment was expired, my allowance was not nearly sufficient to nourish me. When I was again brought into the bishops presence, who thought that by this time I should be sufficiently humbled, he read me a long sermon upon the miserable consequences of persisting in heresies, and made the application to me. If it is being guilty of heresies, my lord, replied I, for a maiden of Christ's holy church to refuse complying with the criminal commands and desires of her bishop, I own myself guilty, but for any other heresy--Ah ! ah ! cried the prelate, interrupting me, I find you have all the exact marks of a real heretic ; first, a contempt for the priesthood ; secondly, wicked and false accusations in order to revile them ; thirdly and lastly, an obstinate perseverance in these falsehoods : now after so many convincing proofs of heresy, do you think it is possible for me to acquit you ? No, no, you stand confessed an heretic, and as such I condemn you to four years imprisonment, with bread and water only for your sustenance, and to receive the discipline thrice every day.
In short, Sir, I shall not take up your time by enumerating the variety of sufferings which I underwent for near six years, which were more than sufficient to have put an end to the life of the strongest man, had it not pleased God for his own wise ends to enable me to bear up against them in such a manner that my persecutors were almost grown weary of tormenting me, when a new and unexpected one arose. Don Lorenzo de Torrez. The grand inquisitor of Portugal, having been at Rome, on some business relating to his tribunal, in his way home passed thro' Badajox, where he was received with extraordinary favours by the bishop, who prevailed with him to make a stay of a few days with him, during which they had frequent conversations together on the pretended heresies of the times, in which they took no small pleasure to recount the number of persons they had persecuted for God's sake. The good bishop reckoned up five hundred that he had imprisoned for his share ; but the inquisitor proved that he had sent about a thousand to the stake, tho' he had been not above ten years in his office. These glorious exploits drew him many compliments from the bishop, who greatly ex tolled his piety and religious zeal, and took occasion to make mention of my affair to him. What, said the inquisitor, with an air of surprize, have you had her so long time under hand, and have not been able to reduce her to reason yet ? God's grace ! if I had had the management of such an affair, I would not have given her above as many days to make her abjuration in, or else--to the stake. The bishop, who was grown heartily weary of persecuting me himself, asked the inquisitor if he would take charge of my conversion, which he readily agreed to ; but as he could exercise no jurisdiction in Spain it was resolved between them that I should be removed to Portugal ; and it was in consequence of this resolution that I was put into the hands of the soldiers with whom you met me, and who have made me suffer during the whole journey
all sorts of ill treatment, yet doubtless nothing in comparison of what are further reserved for me ; but I trust that the Almighty will afford me a sufficient portion of his grace to support them with fortitude, and to lay down my life sooner than fail in the fidelity I have vowed to him."
 VI.
Conclusion of Angelica's story. The manner in which she is delivered by Ranucio.
ANGELICA had just finished the story of her misfortunes, when Don Vulpez came into the room where we were ; he was surprised at my staying so long with a person whom he thought I could not have any concern for ; but in this he was greatly mistaken ; for no one ever felt a more sincere compassion for another than I did for this unfortunate maiden. Her misfortunes had touched my heart, and I ardently wished to be the instrument of delivering her out of the hands of her persecutors. While I was deliberating on the means, heaven inspired me with an expedient that had frequently succeeded in cases nearly resembling this, and I immediately resolved to put it into execution, after having desired Angelica to take courage. I desired Don Vulpez to permit us to sup all three together; which, after some little intreaties, he granted. I then slipped out to give some orders to my man, put a dozen ducats into the landlord's hands to regale the soldiers, and returned back to the table with the commissary and his lovely captive. Ambrose waited upon us, to whose care I recommended Don Vulpez, whom I found to be naturally fond of drinking.
The vices of men are sometimes of use, and are made the means by God of answering many wise and religious purposes, as happened in this case. The healths went round briskly, and among the rest Don Vulpez drank to his father's ; at which Angelica cried out on a sudden, what do I hear ? Can it be that either of you gentlemen are acquainted with Don Pedro de Aletés ? The commissary, who understood as little of Italian as the greatest part of our priests do of latin, could make nothing of this exclamation, but I was charmed with it ; and answered, Yes, Madam, I know Don Pedro de Aletés, and I know him as a son ought to know a father ; and if I can-Ah ! Signor, cried she, I am no longer surprised at your interesting yourself so warmly in my misfortunes ; it is nature speakes in you, and heaven has sent me a near relation to be my comforter : yes, Sir, in me you behold the unhappy daughter of Leonora de Aletés, your aunt ; how happy am I to have met with a person who so truly inherits the virtues of his family ! but alas, in what a deplorable situation do you find me, who am your relation ! but let us take courage ; God, who never abandons those who are his, has doubtless permitted you to meet with me, that by your means I might be delivered from my enemies ; methinks I feel an enlivening hope that tells me I shall yet see their malice disappointed.
The presence of the commissary prevented my giving a loose to my transports of joy at finding so virtuous a relation. Ambrose, who knew that I wanted nothing so much as to be rid of Don Vulpez, plied him close with bumpers, but the old sinner had been so enured to the toils of wine, that they had not the least effect upon him ; at length we were forced to have recourse to some sleepy drugs, which effectually did the business, and laid him fast. I embraced the lucky moment to put my project in execution, and turning to Angelica, My dearest cousin, said I, I have a number of things to say to you, but time is precious, and your situation too urgent to permit us a long conversation : you see your Argus is lulled asleep, the guards are employed elsewhere, here is a faithful fellow on whom I can depend, he will conduct you in my name to my relations ; every thing now appears favourable for us, come in then with me, and supply yourself out of this closet, with what will effectually baffle the vigilance of your
keepers.
Angelica, who did not want for penetration, presently perceived that she was to put on a disguise, to which her nice conscientiousness at first made some objections, which however I soon overruled by representing to her her pressing situation, with other arguments which naturally occurred on this occasion ; accordingly we made an exchange of habits, and while she was retired into the closet to put on her new dress, I sat down to write a line to Don Poketos, my quondam tutor, recommending Angelica strongly to his protection ; nor could I have made choice of a fitter person : the persecutions he himself had undergone, during a long and painful mission, had given him a sympathy for all those who suffered from the effects of bigotry and a blind zeal.
I had but just finished my letter when Angelica returned into the room. My cloaths had so completely disguised her, that had I not been acquainted with the scheme, I should never have recollected her ; her's had the same effect on me, for the natural freshness of my complexion, and the almost total want of a beard, concurred to favour the deceit. I gave her the letter I had written, and after exhorting her to make use of all her resolution, I embraced her, and committed her to the care of the faithful Ambrose, and looking out of the window, had the satisfaction to see them pass unmolested thro' the guard, and ride clear off. Seeing them thus happily out of danger, I began now to think of extricating myself ; and accordingly went into the closet in order to take a suit of cloaths out of my portmanteau, but ill fortune would have it that at that very instant Don Vulpez wakened from his trance. Surprised at not seeing me in the room (tho' I stood before his eyes) he called for me several times, but I took special care not to open my lips. One of the guards running in upon hearing his voice, told him that I was gone away. Is he so, cried Don Vulpez, he must certainly hae had some very urgent business, or he would never have gone away thus abruptly, without taking his leave of me. However I'll go to bed ; here, look to your prisoner, and hold yourselves in readiness to set out early in the morning. So saying he withdrew, and the guards double locked me into the room, leaving me to my private meditations.
This unlucky accident quite disconcerted my schemes, and I began to perceive all the danger I was exposed to, nevertheless I found no inclination in myself to repent of what I had done for Angelica's deliverance ; and without giving way to useless regret, or melancholy reflections, I resolved to put my whole trust in God, whom I was persuaded would not permit me to suffer for so good a cause. In this happy disposition I retired to rest, and the next morning when my guards came to call me, got on horseback, and about nine o'clock arrived in the midst of my escort about a mile distant from Lisbon.
 VII.
Ranucio is confined in a nunnery by the orders of the inquisitor. His treatment there. The lives and manners of the Portuguese nuns.
WE were now, as I said, in the foregoing chapter, within a short mile of Lisbon, and I imagined we were to enter that city in the same order that we had observed in our journey from Silveyra ; but the commissary ordered us to halt for a few minutes till he had sent for a litter, into which I was put ; and then dismissing all the soldiers, excepting twelve, which he kept by way of retinue, we proceeded for Lisbon, where we soon arrived ; and I was immediately conducted to the convent, which was to be the place of my confinement ; and Don Vulpez, after having shewn the grand inquisitor's orders, delivered me up in form to the charge of the lady abbess, and then, according to the old proverb, the wolf was shut up in the sheepfold.
As soon as D. Vulpez was gone, the first thing the abbess did was to read to me the dreadful orders which had been just delivered to her ; by which I was to be confined in the prison of the convent, without any other sustenance than bread and water, and with two disciplines before each meal. I gave myself over for lost when I heard the last article, for reasons that may easily be conceived. I instantly threw myself at the abbbess' feet, which I bathed with my tears, and speaking in as effeminate a tone as I could assume, which I kept up during my whole stay in the convent, I begged her by all that was soft and tender to omit the disciplines.
Happily for me the person I had to deal with was not above five-and-twenty years of age, and was not one of those imperious women who delight in making every one under them feel the whole weight of their authority by rigorously straining their orders : she, good lady, on the contrary, compassionated my sufferings, and promised to render my situation more comfortable than it had yet been, provided I would be tractable and obedient to herself and the grand inquisitor. In the circumstances I was then under, I should readily have promised impossibilities themselves to get clear of the dilemma I had brought myself into ; accordingly I feigned so much penitence, and represented my resolution of being subject in all things to her will and directions, and this in so pathetic a manner, that I soon perceived she was greatly affected, which I did not so much attribute to the power of my own eloquence, as to the effects of a certain warm sympathy which I thought I had inspired her with, and I was more confirmed in this when, raising my eyes up to her's, I found she was bathed in tears : how extraordinary a thing was this, that nature should work so powerfully in my favour with her, notwithstanding my disguise. In a word, she raised me from the ground, and embracing me tenderly, promised me her protection. I can never believe, said she, that a person such as you appear to me can possibly have been guilty of what is laid to your charge ; I rather look upon you to be greatly injured, and therefore shall do every thing in my power to soften your confinement. Henceforward you shall have no other prison than my apartment, no other jailor than myself ; as for the inquisitor, be under no apprehension about him, his long absence has brought about many affairs upon his hands, which he must finish before he can have leisure to think of you ; and for our nuns here, I shall effectually provide against any little tittle-tattle of theirs, by making you pass for my sister, which will readily account for
the intimate connection between us.
So many and such undeserved instances of kindness transported me in an instant from the deepest melancholy to an excess of joy, which was indeed so great, that it hurried me away from myself, and I was on the point of throwing my arms around the abbess' neck, to give her the warmest testimonies of my gratitude, but recollecting myself instantly, I was contented with taking her hand, which I kissed a thousand and a thousand times.
I was now introduced to the society, as the abbess' sister, in consequence of which I had to receive and return the compliments of the whole sisterhood, and acquitted myself extremely well in my new character ; but what a temptation was it for a young fellow to see such a number of beautiful creatures asking leave to salute him ! however I had sufficient bridle to keep me within due bounds, which was the fear of being discovered.
The agreeable life I led, and the company of the young abbess, afforded me the highest pleasure ; she had wit and beauty, joined to a very agreeable conversation, and besides all this, I could plainly perceive that I had (perhaps unknown to herself) made a deep impression on her heart. But as she was much oftener at the grate than in her own apartment, I necessarily found some part of my time lie heavy upon my hands for want of employment ; this being observed by one of the abbess' companions, she very obligingly undertook to supply me with the means of employing my idle moments, and brought me a work-basket full of all the necessary implements and utensils for knitting, sowing, knotting, &c. I could not help smiling when these little knick-knacks were brought to me of which I could not possibly make any use, and excused myself as well as I could on the short time I had to stay among them, and the little inclination I had to my needle.
This answer made them imagine that I had a dislike to their convent, and indeed the continual apprehension I was under of being sent for by the inquisitor, and the impossibility I saw of making my escape, while I was never suffered to be out of the sight of the abbess or one of her companions, had given me an air of thoughtfulness which it was impossible to disguise. In order to be a little more at liberty, I took the opportunity one day to ask the abbess' permission to pay a visit to the nuns of her community. I will grant you this with all my heart, replied the abbess, provided you will give me your promise to make a prudent use of this indulgence and always return to me again ; not that I shall be jealous of any little friendships you may make amongst them, but all my nuns have not a heart so tender and sincere as mine ; if you should open yourself to them, depend upon it they will conspire your ruin, was it only to give me vexation ; for it is a rule with them to do every thing in their power to disoblige me, accordingly in return I am not wanting on every occasion to serve them in their own coin.
I soon found that the abbess had told me no more than the truth ; for I had hardly made my appearance amongst them, than they all began to murmur at her, for having, as they called it, monopolized my person to herself ; every one gave it her own particular turn, and all in general concurred, to look upon it as a great slight offered to the community, and which ought to be properly resented. The storm was at first likely to fall upon me, but I soon found that I had a superior party in my favour, accordingly I thought I had nothing to do, but use my endeavours to make them once more friends with their abbess ; for which I imagined she would not be much displeased with me.
With this charitable view I made it my business to pay them each a separate visit, and was
particularly observant to those whom I found to be the most inveterate against her, which were by far the greatest number. When I came to inform myself of the reasons that occasioned this discontent and murmuring, I found, to the great scandal of religion, that their chief cause of complaint against her, was for having put a stop to certain gallantries which had passed in her convent, and had already given it but a very indifferent character in the world. The nuns, in their own justification, alledged that they did no more than what their abbess herself set them the example of every day of her life. Had they known me for the person I really was, they would have talked in a very different manner ; they moreover complained, that by being their superior, she thought she had a right to make them do as she pleased, and to be subject herself to no restraint : Indeed this was very nearly the good abbess' sentiments, and as she in general acted pretty well up to them, this had given occasion to all the animosities and heart-burnings that were in her convent.
She had this consideration however to comfort her, that they hated one another as heartily as they could possibly do her. This mutual dislike frequently gave rise to private enmities, which were carried to the gretest lengths : sometimes, as the mind of woman is naturally variable, one or other of them would make their peace with the abbess and the that was sufficient to set all the rest against them ; another grand source of discontent was the violent itch for gallantry which still prevailed amongst them, in spite of the reformation that had been lately attempted on that head ; this never failed to set them together by the ears, as often as it came on the carpet. Those who received the most frequent visits from the gentlemen on account of their superior attractions, were sure of becoming the general objects of hatred and envy with the others, who would revenge themselves by sly inuendo's, smart raillery, reproaches, abuse, and every ridiculous word or action that jealous women are capable of committing. In short, this spirit of hatred and envy prevailed amongst them even to the most decrepid and old, whom I have frequently seen tearing one another's cloaths off their backs about their beauty and past conquests. Others again were so attached to this or that particular confessor, that they could bear no contradiction on that head, and would frequently from words proceed to blows. In short, so great was the disorder and confusion that prevailed in this community, that out of an hundred and fifty nuns, of which it consisted, there were hardly six of them that lived in good terms with each other ; and, what is still more strange, I was assured by many of them who had passed almost their whole lives in different communities, that it was the same thing in all of them. A fine example this for those girls who find in themselves an inclination to a religious life !
 VIII. and LAST
Which concludes the adventures of Don Ranucio.
HAD I not been induced by the most pressing motives, to endeavour to extricate myself from the dilemma into which my over great charity had plunged me, the spirit of confusion and contradiction that
reigned throughout this house would have made me desirous to quit it as soon as possible ; accordingly my whole thoughts were employed about the means of accomplishing it, when luckily the abbess, who suspected nothing of my real intention herself, furnished me with an opportunity, and that in the following manner : it was her constant custom to go twice a year into the country, to drink the waters, and take the air ; a custom which she had entered into, not so much from any real need she stood in of them, as from a certain air of gaity, which would not permit her to live in constant health, like a common citizen's wife ; and notwithstanding the ruddy bloom of her complexion constantly gave her the lie, she was always complaining of her bad state of health ; and to give this the greater air of truth, she retained a physician, an apothecary, and a surgeon, who were very assiduous in their honorary visits. Under the favour of these, and an imaginary malady, she got herself excused from the observance of the duties of her office, and the strict rules by which the rest of the community were governed ; and what was still more agreeable, it procured her the liberty of rambling up and down the country as she pleased, twice a year at least.
The time for her autumnal expedition was now approaching, and she waited only for a return of good weather to set out on her jaunt, when the sister who used to be her companion in these excursions, was taken suddenly and dangerously ill ; upon which she made choice of me to supply her place ; and accordingly, to my no small satisfaction, gave me notice of her intention, with orders to hold myself in readiness against the next day ; but while I was making the necessary preparations for obeying this pleasing mandate, she received a letter from the grand inquisitor, inquiring after her prisoner, and ordering me to be brought before him the next day, to undergo my first examination. A thunder-stroke would not have confounded me half so much as this unlucky letter ; the abbess soon perceived my trouble, and endeavoured to encourage me to the utmost of her power. Fear nothing, my sweet Angelica, said she to me, think not that I have taken you under my protection only to abandon you at the very time that you stand most in need of it ; my treatment of you may alone be sufficient to ward off such apprehensions ; cease then these vain alarms, the examination you seem so much to dread, is no other than mere matter of form ; and you have nothing more to do than satisfy the grand inquisitor of your being truly orthodox, and the affair is over.
I returned the good abbess a thousand thanks for the many favours she had shewn me, requesting her, at the same time, to continue them towards me ; but I could not help being terribly frightened notwithstanding her fine speeches : I had many causes of inquietude that she never dream'd of, and the thoughts of the grand inquisitor's discovering me thro' my disguise, gave me more concern than all the heresies in the world put together. If nature, thought I, has been almost powerful enough to betray me to the abbess, notwithstanding my disguise, and every other precaution that could be taken, what may I not expect from the discerning eyes of a rigid judge, and one accustomed to penetrate into the profoundest secrets ? In short I saw but one way of getting out of this ticklish situation, and even that was rendered in a manner inpracticable by the vigilance of the abbess, who never suffered me out of her sight all day, and at night made me be locked up in one of her own apartments. Seeing me still continue uneasy and melancholy, she reproved me for giving way to such fears, after the assurances she had so lately made me. Do you imagine, said she, that if I thought you ran the least risk, the friendship and regard I ahve for you would not put me upon some methods of taking you out of the inquisitor's hands ? Cease then, I
say, once more, my dearest Angelica, to torment yourself with such idle fears, or I shall begin to suspect that you are in reality guilty of the crimes which are laid to your charge. It is for the guilty alone to start at the thoughts of encountering justice, and I can never be brought to entertain the smallest thought of that kind against you. You do me great justice, Madam, replied I, but then the tribunal before which I am to appear, is of so dreadful a nature, that it might make even innocence itself tremble ; how then can I help being terrified at-What pains you are at to make yourself miserable, replied the abbess, and how wretchedly are you overseen in relation to what passes here. You will soon cease to be thus alarmed, when I shall tell you that this terrible judge is, of all my votaries, the one who pays the blindest submission to my will. This is so well known a circumstance, that I persuaded myself, that my nuns had already acquainted you with it. I leave you then to judge, if, with my recommendation, you have any thing to fear from that quarter.
This piece of news, which the abbess thought so comfortable for me, only served to redouble my apprehensions. I now found that I had to do not only with an inflexible judge, but with a doating jealous lover ; who, if he once should happen to discover me, would, if possible, make me suffer ten thousand deaths. This dreadful thought made me shudder from head to foot ; the abbess, who was ignorant of the true motives of my uneasiness, did her utmost to dissipate it; but feeling all her endeavours ineffectual, she proposed to me to take a walk with her in the garden, in order to amuse me. I obeyed thro' complaisance, but we had not taken above a turn or two together, when word was brought her that the count of Azanda was inquiring for her, upon which she left me alone to repair to the grate, where that nobleman expected her, and I, glad to get rid of her company, continued my walk.
I was so buried in thought, that without knowing whither I was going, I wandered till I got into that part of the garden which was set apart for the use of the boarders to divert themselves in : one of these children seeing me walking in that place, which was something unusal, and thinking to get some sweetmeats from me, came running up to make me her compliments, but what was my surprise and confusion when I knew her to be my sister, who had been placed there as a boarder since my having left Lisbon. The child was overjoyed at seeing me, and began to ask me a thousand little inconvenient questions about the reason of my dress, and how I came thither ; all which were so many daggers to me : Lord bless me ! said she, how could mamma serve us so ? she always told us you was gone into the country, and here you have been a nun all the while in this place ; she would have gone on with her little babble, if I had not made her a sign to be silent, and taking her on one side for fear we should be seen together, charged her, on pain of being severely disciplined, not to take the least notice of having seen me ; and then filling her pockets with some dried sweetmeats, which I always carried about me, sent her back to her companions.
After an adventure of this kind, which could not long remain a secret, I found there was nothing left for me but a speedy flight ; the fear of being discovered and seized, made me resolve not to return back to the house, and not thinking myself sufficiently safe in that part of the garden where I then was, I concealed myself in a little thicket at the further end of it, where I passed the whole afternoon in the greatest anxiety imaginable, praying heaven to give me an happy deliverance. At length night came, which I suffered to be well advanced before I ventured from my hiding-place, and then went to that part of the garden where I knew the walls were lowest, and by the help of an espalier, which formed a kind
of ladder for me, I soon got to the top, and from thence let myself down on the other side by means of a rope which, as good fortune would have it, had been left there by some of the gardeners. I got no other damage in this attempt than a slight scratch on the skin from the rope in letting myself down, and I might have been quit even for less trouble, had I not been so much in an hurry ; for I was scarce got to the ground, when I perceived at a few paces from me a gentleman climbing the walls by a silken ladder, which he would doubtless have had the compliance to have lent me. He came down again as soon as he saw me, but presently discovering that I was not the person he was in search of, he remounted his ladder, and entered the convent in order to spend the night very differently from those which I had lately passed there.
Altho' I was now got clear of my prison, I was far from being freed from my apprehensions ; the fear of falling into the hands of the patrole in the dress I was in, made me resolve to throw it off immediately, and stripping myself accordingly to my shirt and drawers, I made a bundle of the rest, which I threw over into the garden. This proved a very necessary precaution, for I had scarcely made twenty steps from the place, when I found myself attacked by four street robbers, who laid hold of me with an intention to rob me, but seeing me in that trim, and thinking that some of their fraternity had been beforehand with them, they let me go about my business.
Having got clear of them, I set out as fast as I could go, and was just got up to the door of the house of an intimate acquaintance, called D. Nunez, when I was again stopped by the archer of the guard, who asked me who I was, and what I was doing so late in the streets ? I made them answer that I was a young man of family, who a pressing affair had obliged much against my will and custom to be abroad at that time of night ; and that I had just been stript. Ay, and you are rightly served too, said the officer of the watch, it will teach you not to be rambling about the streets at such an hour as this, and not only so, but you ought to be carried to prison till it can be known whether you tell the truth or not. If you want to be convinced of that, replied I, without hesitation, you have only to go with me to D. Nunez's house, which is not ten yards from hence, where-the name of this gentleman presently made the grim magistrate of the night as gentle as a lamb, and making a thousand excuses for his rudeness, he left two of his people with me to conduct me in safety to my friend's house.
When we got there we found the whole family fast asleep, and had much to do before we could get the door opened. D. Nunez was not a little surprised at seeing me at that time of night, and so uncased ; and began to ask me several questions, which I promised to answer as soon as he had got me some cloathes, and sent for D. Poketos ; both which requests he immediately complied with, and in a very little time I saw the venerable old man enter the room ; who embracing me with great tenderness, inquired by what lucky adventure he had the pleasure of seeing me so unexpectedly. I gave him an account of what had happened to me from the time the virtuous Angelica had left me with my confinement in the abbey of ****, and my happy escape from thence. After which I inquired of him about my family, and especially concerning my new cousin. He told me that he had sent her into the country to a lady of his acquaintance, where she was to stay till it should be seen how this adventure was likely to turn out. Heavens knows what may be the issue of it, said I, but thank God we are at length both of us at liberty. That is true, replied D. Nunez, but I am afraid you will not be long so, unless you take great care ; the story of your disguise and escape is doubtless, by this time, known to the grand
inquisitor, whose resentment is so much the more to be dreaded, as both his love and religion are concerned : therefore, if you will take my advice, we will go all together to a country-seat of mine, where we will wait to see how matters turn out. This proposal was greatly approved of by D. Poketos, and it was determined to set out as soon as it was light enough to find our way.
It seemed as if we had acted by inspiration, for one of the springs happening to be broke, we were obliged to wait some time to have it repaired, during which we learnt that my story was already known in the abbey, and foreseeing that it would not be long before it reached the inquisitor's ears, thro' some of the abbess' charitable friends. D. Nunez immediately sent for another coach, and we set out in all haste for Villanuova, an estate of his, a few miles distant from Setuval ; there we staid near a month, without any one having the least suspicion of our story, but being informed that the inquisitor had spies every where abroad after me, I considered that it would be better to leave my native country for some time than to fall into his hands. D. Nunez, to whom I communicated my design, was of the same opinion ; but the greatest difficulty was to pitch upon the place of my retreat. He was for having me go to Spain, where he offered to secure me the most powerful protection. In answer to this, I represented to him that it would be only flying from one inquisition to fall into another ; and that our Portuguese settlements in the new world appeared to me the most secure retreat of any ; but my friend who had formerly made a voyage thither, remarked in his turn, that I should run still greater risk there, the inquisition in that place being, if possible, ten times more severe than it was here.
We were in this state of irresolution, when my father D. Pedro, who had been informed by D. Poketos of the dangerous situation I was in, came to see me ; far from loading me with reproaches, as many fathers would have done on a like occasion, he commended my charity, and told me that he had fallen upon a method of delivering me from the inquisitor's pursuits, if I could prevail upon myself to comply with it. There is a ship, said he, bound to Louisiana, in N. America, and I think the opportunity too fair to be lost. I listened attentively to what this indulgent parent said : the beauty of the country, the character of the people, and above all, the great liberty of conscience which I had been told was permitted there, determined me to make the voyage, and two days afterwards I embarked on board the ship.
Thus ended the adventures I met with in my own country : adventures which, indeed, have nothing extraordinary in them to people well acquainted with the world, but which may prove of infinite service to those who have not yet entered on that dangerous career.
FINIS.
