
THE
OFFSPRING
OF
FANCY.
*******
 I.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
THOUGH you have not kept your word with me, of writing the moment you arrived at Frogly Farm, I will only chide you by my eagerness to prove the largest share of sisterly affection.--I had a pious visit this morning from your excellent pastor, who is come up to this wicked town once more, to initiate his son Charles into the study of the mysteries of the law, and to fix him in chambers to his own liking; that is to say, with windows to let in the morning sun, and a ventilator to expel all noxious vapours, and circulate a sufficient quantity of fresh air to preserve the bloom which he carried from Frogly to Cambridge, and has ever since, by his temperance and sobriety, preserved, in spite of bad example, and the prevalence of custom upon youthful minds.--This is the good doctor's account of himself, his son, and his present journey to London.--He tells me that Sophia is as grave, Eliza as gay, and Henrietta as beautiful, as when I saw them with you last summer;--that you and your Corydon are, as usual, the delight of the village, the envy of your rich neighbours, and the parents, friends, and guardian-angels of the poor.--And, as an excuse for my present propensity to write to my dear Charlotte, he told me, that you had begged he would appologize to me for your laziness, by the disorder in which you found your dairy, store-room, &c. at your return, and the necessary fatigues of setting them to rights again.--Now, though I always give just as much credit (and no more) as I think proper to all excuses of this nature; yet, as we are always apt to believe what flatters ourselves, I give you this notice, that I shall at times be content with three lines, provided you are punctual in point of time;--do but begin with a dear sister, and conclude with an affectionate one;--give me leave to congratulate you upon an agreeable cause, or condole with you upon a sad one, such as the tooth-ach--the visit of an old-maid--or some misfortune of equal magnitude; in short, do but allow me to use my pen, and (as I know it suits your humour best) I will allow you to spare yours.
I am at present engaged in a very important service; Lady Frances Montford and I are going to the next masquerade.--She is a good little woman; but apt to be saucy enough--She fancies nobody can have taste without a title. Now (you know I love argument dearly) I am determined to convince her that she is mistaken:-- not but it is a very clear case to me, that nature meant me for a dutchess, only fortune made a
trifling mistake, and in her calculation set me down for plain Mrs.	. Now do I
see a cloud gathering upon your brow; but I will avert the threatning storm, by confessing the superior happiness of my lot. We must not always be wife, my dear; for, however humiliating to human nature, it must be owned, that her greatest favourites now and then indulge in an hour of folly.--Yet, as I know the almost perfect goodness of your disposition, I am always afraid of trifling, unless I atone for a dozen lines of levity, by at least as many more of a contrary nature. For the present, however, you must excuse me; my mind is in an uncommon state of ease and pleasantry;--indeed, blessed in such a husband, who lives but in and for me--blessed with three such little cherubs as almost mock infirmity, and laugh disease to scorn-- surrounded by all the sweets of plenty, and happy (if I do not flatter myself) in the esteem of all whom I converse with, what should make me serious--except the fear of losing these blessings? That is a thought I dare not indulge--and why indeed should I indulge it? The bounteous Giver meant them for blessings; as such I will enjoy them, nor impiously anticipate a misery, he may not intend to inflict; for according to our favourite Pope, "to enjoy, is to obey:" yet sometimes I think upon this subject, till thoughts grow terrible. Duelling is become a fashion as general as powder; and Mr. Clement has a sense of what the men call honor; which is to me a perpetual monitor that no man can be perfect: else, had my Charles, who is in every other respect a christian, been tainted with such impiety? My children too, are beautiful; he who formed them, best knows how exquisitely beautiful!--yet, may the small-pox come, and in an hour destroy that fountain of maternal delight.--Then, as to fortune, the last and least article of my happiness, that, in a situation like Mr. Clement's, is always fluctuating; but that I think not of; for though your flowery lawns and purling streams may be the properest scences for romance, as a wife and a mother, I think, I can
match your extremest heroism: in short, I am thoroughly convinced, that were I destitute of all the superfluities, nay, almost of the comforts of life, possessing, as I do, such homefelt endearing blessings, in the undivided heart of my husband, and the seraphic smiles of my children, I could, with the firmness of a Roman matron, smile at misfortune, and defy pecuniary distress.----I was interrupted, my dear, by a note from my sweet friend in Dover-Street. She is not well; and begs that we will come and play an innocent pool with her this evening. She keeps her room, it says; and yet she asks Mr. Clement;--that's odd! But she is above the little pruderies of narrow minds; her soul is not of the common size; but, like her form, speaks her of a species distinct and separate from the crowd. How beautiful she must look in an undress!--It is well I am sure of my husband:--but perhaps he may not go. I have sent the note down to the compting-house: he sends me word that he hates cards; and, Selby says, looks as if he was angry. Why should he be angry? Something in his business perhaps.--He is coming up. Charlotte, did you ever see your husband out of humour, and could not tell why?--There was nothing in Mrs. Belmour's note to offend him; and yet he would neither go, nor tell me why he refused; so I ordered the coach, and am going by myself. Adieu!
Friday morn.
I never spent so uneasy an evening as yesterday, though it was with a friend, who, next to my dear Charlotte, I love and esteem beyond all the women in the world! About ten o'clock Mr. Clement called at the door; and, notwithstanding our joint entreaties to come up stairs, sullenly refused; and said, "He would wait Mrs. Clement's

 II.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT.
Frogly Farm.
MY DEAR SISTER,
TO convince you how absolute your commands, and how dear all your interests are to your Charlotte, I lose not a moment in giving you my thoughts upon the contents of your last letter: you know me, slow to admire, and slow to censure. Would to heaven your open unsuspecting heart were as cool in making friendships, as susceptible of the miseries which ill-placed ones may produce!--In a word, I never liked your Mrs. Belmour.--Forgive me, my dear, nor start at my assertion--a female friend, a very attracting one too, is to a married woman, a dangerous possession.--Nay, I will go yet farther, and say, that a married woman who admits no friend but her husband, takes the most prudent and likely road to happiness--yet, bound as we are, by every natural tye, to share each other's happiness or misery, it would be making duties clash (which he who formed them never intended) to carry our reserve to the exclusion of a sister's participation.--You know, my dear, what cause I have to love and reverence your husband.--I know the goodness of his heart, for I have been in some degree an object of it; yet the warmth and sanguinity of his constitution is a sufficient reason why you should, as I often told you, be very much guarded in your choice of acquaintance; not that I would wish to insinuate an idea, to the injury of either your husband or your sweet friend as you call her: I believe her, in the last degree, virtuous; and I think her pride and her good understanding will be powerful incentives to her to remain so; but, my dear, she loves admiration, and does not love her husband.--I have seen you forget yourself in a large company, and see only her--what if your husband should discover as many charms in her as you do, can you blame him for following your example? Hitherto, I believe, you have no cause to suspect his fidelity--let me conjure you to make a timely retreat from the post of danger, where you so often
place him and yourself: he is a good man, an amiable man--but remember he is a man--and when you reflect upon the licence, which education, custom and the example of those we live with, give to all the sex, you will be convinced that the best way to victory is to draw him off from an engagement.--Perhaps, by the time you read this, you will have forgotten the subject--your mind is capable of strong and quick impressions; but the superior generosity of your heart makes you ever the easy prey of artifice and dissimulation--and since I am upon the topick, I will just hint, that if you could easily replace Selby, I think your domestic tranquillity might be insured from the worst source of disquiet, that of a bosom snake who creeps close but to sting you.--I find my mind in a severer tone than usual; and as it will probably discourse nothing now but discordant musick, I will break off for the present.--Mr. Bellas joins his sincerest wishes for every earthly happiness to you and yours, with those of your truly affectionate sister,
CHARLOTTE.
 III.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS.
HA! ha! ha! my sweet, severe, sentimental, sister! why, Charlotte, you rail like an old maid at a wedding. How is it possible for so good a woman to be so uncharitable? I could hardly forbear reading your letter aloud:--I received it in the most critical situation imaginable--we were seated a partie quarrée in my little blue room--Mr. and Mrs. Belmour, Mr. Clement and I--the cards were but just dealt--Mrs. Belmour passed, whilst I broke the seal--Mr. Clement doubted a moment, whilst I cast my eye over the first line; then said, he would do the same--good-manners obliged me to look at my cards; when behold! A sansprendre vole!--Oh Charlotte, how flattering every symptom of good fortune attributed to those we love! During the next deal I read the remainder of your exhortation, I must call it.--I cast my eye insensibly on the sweet subject of your severity--she hoped Mrs. Bellas was well? I acquiesced-- Mr. Bellas too?--I believed so--enquired whether you had done her the honor to mention her?--There, Charlotte--what return could I make to that? I believed I looked very silly, for I am a miserable Bon Tonist--I cannot lye with a good grace--I did lie however, and so pursued spadille.--We rang the changes upon the four aces till eleven o'clock, when the servant announced Mr. Belmour's carriage.--He rose; she was not well, and yet did not seem disposed to go--so the cold chicken was laid, and we enjoyed another hour's chat--I was disappointed of going to the last masquerade by lady Frances, being seized with an ulcerated sore-throat the evening before.--However, on Monday next, we go with an encreased party. Mr. and Mrs. Belmour--a Mr. Deacon, who visits them, and a Mrs. Colville, a sprightly elegant West Indian widow, who always puts me in mind of Sterne's Brunette in The Sentimental Journey--I have racked my invention to make dresses for the whole set--and have left myself no time to make up any thing, but shall go in a man's domino, as will the lovely Creole--indeed that is the Ton at present.--I have at last finished the rest of the groupe--Mr. Belmour goes as Lusignan, Mr. Deacon as Osman, and Mrs. Belmour as Zara. Now don't you be scandalous--Mr. Deacon and Mr. Belmour are intimate as brothers--the latter you know; his greatest merit is the just value he sets upon his wife--his greatest misfortune, having married her so young, that she was not sufficiently acquainted with her own heart to know she could not bestow it upon him.--And yet how amiably does she conduct herself! how sweetly, how meritoriously, make duty alone supply the place of every united tie that you and I have to bind us to our husbands! My dear good sister, "be not righteous over-much;" cease to think ill of a woman, who, in a situation so unfavourable, has deserved, through twelve or fourteen years of penance, the approbation of the world. As to Selby, I think you are right--and I will part with her as soon as I can do it prudently--indeed I have often been sorry I did not take your advice when I married, and avail myself of Mr. Clement's offer, to discharge all the servants that were prior to my time; yet my heart forbad me to deprive seven honest creatures of so good a master, for no other reason than that I had got so good a husband. However, I do not like Selby's manner of late; she seems disposed to make trifles of consequence, and sometimes speaks of her master with a freedom which I do not take myself.--True, it seems the result of her attachment to me; so far I should forgive her--yet he has deserved more of her than I have; therefore, if she had a grateful heart, he would be her first object.--I have, at her desire, and from a principle of economy, had her


 V.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
THE moment I read your melancholy description of the parsonage-house, I sent to Charles Mason, and desired he would eat a bit of mutton with us at four o'clock, as I had something to say to him from you.--Mean time, Mr. Clement, who was apprehensive his finances might not be in the best condition, proposed taking that opportunity of carrying me to visit my dear sister, and transporting Charles without expence or delay to his father.--I am almost ashamed to give you the true reason, and yet I cannot impose upon you by pretending any other, for my rejecting an offer so kind. But this is the day for which our masquerade-party has been made for these three weeks;--and I have had so many ambassadors from the different personages who compose it, and answered all in the affirmative; that I cannot now change my plan, without the humiliating circumstance of giving a reason to each of them, and perhaps having the mortification of finding it refused credit; for so much does a town-life take off from the social feelings of hearts like my Charlotte's, that it would seem incomprehensible to ninety-nine out of every hundred of those with whom I am just going to mix for the night, that the death of an old man, however worthy, and the dissolution of an amiable family, however happy, should be of sufficient consequence to keep a being no way connected but by the general tie of humanity from the dear delights of "Do you know me?"--Give me leave, however, my dear Charlotte, to blunt the edge of your reproaches, by assuring you, that my heart is busy in the right place, notwithstanding the appearance of an insensibility which I abhor. Should it be the will of Providence to take the good old man, I know Mr. Bellas and you will have some plan for disposing of the girls.--Command me for a year's pocket-money;--it is but dressing my own hair, and avoiding a superfluous plume of feathers.--Dinner is on the table; and I think Charles has just knocked at the door: I will contrive some method of conveying him to Frogly.--We have a couple of horses, which you have promised to turn out with yours into the long meadow:--I will have them put to the travelling chaise, which we shall not want till it can by some other means be sent back again. Fill the little private packet with an account of yourself and your good man.-- The dinner waits; adieu!
Monday even.
A circumstance has occurred, my dear, which I cannot conceal from you, though I know it will give you concern:--poor Charles Mason has fallen into some of those snares with which London abounds for youths, who, like him, have been deprived of the most useful of all studies, that of human nature. His father certainly meant well to all his children in the extreme retirement to which he accustomed them; and, with respect to his daughters, it may do very well; but boys should, in my opinion, have an education as different as their habits.--Poor Charles, unconscious of guile in himself, and untaught to expect it in others, made one in a party on Monday sevennight to Ranelagh.--A lady, of the Millwood kind, struck with the bloom which the poor old man was so proud of, watched his departure; and, having wrote with her


 VII.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I CAN now give you the whole history of Charles; prepare for a melancholy catastrophe, and soften the concern which it will give you, by recollecting that the good old man, whose heart-strings it must have torn, is happily released in time to escape the knowledge of it.--Whilst I was stolen up into my dressing-room, to finish my last letter to you, Mr. Clement, who saw the matter in a less serious light than I could have supposed, yet thought it of consequence enough to wish to reason the unthinking boy into a resolution to pursue it no farther:--with this design he went again to the Paper-buildings, where, as he guessed, he found Charles still in conference with the broker, to whom he had made a sale of not only his furniture, but even his books, globes, and a part of his linen, for about seventy pounds.--The broker, it seems, was not able immediately to muster the money; and Charles's situation did not admit of giving credit.--Mr. Clement offered the broker ten pounds for his bargain; which, for some time, he refused; till, upon remonstrating with him upon the advantage he must have taken of the young man's situation, and something like a hint of legal redress, he consented, and, pocketing the bank note, left the chambers in statu quo, and the gentlemen to their tęte ŕ tęte.--Charles, who very properly considered Mr. Clement's behaviour as a severe though delicate reproof, was prevented by an ingenuous shame from interposing whilst the broker staid:--the moment he was gone, he burst into tears; and, taking Mr. Clement by the hand, he sobbed out, "Oh, Sir, you have meant to save me; but I am only rendered more miserable--more, by an unavoidable necessity, undone:--before, I should only have ruined myself; now I must add to my own misery that of an unfortunate woman, whose only crime has been an affection unworthily placed upon me." Mr. Clement, who attributed all this eulogium upon the lady to Charles's simplicity and want of knowledge of the world, chose to let the effusion exhaust itself before he applied the styptick which he went on purpose to administer;--at last, when reason seemed to stand a little chance, passion having had ample scope, Mr. Clement observed, that the lady, from the best intelligence he could collect, was in no material degree worse than when they met;--that, if she had lost the friendship of one gentleman, she had still charms enough to attract another;--that the affection she had bestowed upon Charles, however flattering, was not of such a value as required his utter ruin for the payment;--that those epithets which he had so liberally applied to himself, were in fact applicable only to her first seducer. Here he could no longer contain himself--he fell into an agony of passion, and cried, "I am, I am that monster!" Mr. Clement, who really thought his brain turned, was at a loss what argument next to apply, when the lady (with her maid, both in mourning) broke into the room; and, upon seeing Mr. Clement, instantly fainted away!--Charles, who was now entirely off his guard, tearing his hair, and throwing himself at her feet, cried, "Look up, look up, my injured, lovely, lost Amelia; 'tis thy husband calls, the husband of thy soul!--we are met, for the last time--never to part again;--nor law, nor gospel, nor Merisford himself, that usurper of my rights, that tyrant, that lord of thy alienated hand, shall ever force thee from my arms."--She opened her eyes, and, seeing Mr. Clement fixed



MARIANNE.
 IX.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT.
DEAR SISTER,
I HAVE waited with the greatest impatience for the close of your melancholy narrative--what is become of your unfortunate visitor? what is become of Charles? Sophia, who after a fever of ten days continuance is but just able to sit up whilst her bed is made, is always talking, and, as she says, always dreaming of her brother: she cannot suppose that he is in a state of existence, and capable of absenting himself from his sisters in their present situation.--The new rector has been several times to visit his future residence, and seems to desire the possession of it with a degree of eagerness that ill suits the character he should support, whether as a christian or a gentleman. "So man from man may differ, whose clay is all alike."--Had Dr. Mason found it under such circumstances, his delicacy would have wanted invitation even to see it; but Dr. Freeman, for that is our present pastor's name, has never omitted a day since the late incumbent was interred, and seldom fails to temper his enquiries after the poor afflicted girl with sad lamentations upon the inconvenience he feels at being obliged to reside at his present house, though it has answered all his purposes for thirteen years that he has held the living; and has reared upon its produce seven sons and a daughter, all of whom are living; and Miss Freeman, as he calls her, as impatient as her father to come into our parish.--He has made a proposal of purchasing, at a fair appraisement, the furniture, plate, and house-linen, just as it stands--and I believe the girls would be glad to accept his offer, but Sophia wants to see Charles first.--The Doctor has left a will in his own hand-writing, by which he bequeaths his books, manuscript sermons, &c. to his son; and whatever ready-money he should die possessed of, together with his household furniture, garden tools, plate, china, linen, and pictures, to be made into three equal lots, and appropriated to his girls; or, if they agree upon selling the whole, the produce to be added to the ready-money, and the whole equally divided amongst them.--His mode of appointing executors is whimsical, and speaks his character; he says, that he has always been so fortunate in the esteem and friendship of his parishioners, that he will leave it to Providence to appoint any one of them to the sacred trust of his dear orphans--and begs, that whoever happens to assist his girls in opening his will, may consider himself as their guardian by divine appointment.--To this trust Mr. Bellas has succeeded, and seems greatly delighted with the employment. Eliza has amused herself with making my baby-things, but Henrietta does not seem to relish any thing but reading.--If I had any mode of conveyance for Sophia, that did not endanger her life, I would have her removed directly, and give Mr. Freeman possession of the house; but I will wait till I hear from you again. If Charles could collect himself sufficiently to come down, I think it might be of great service to them all--the girls would be the better satisfied with whatever they do, if it had his approbation; and he might, by busying himself in their concerns, forget, at least in some degree, his own-- so true it is, that self-love and social are the same.--If his person be so engrossed by this most unhappy adventure as to be lost to them; at least desire him to write to his sisters, and give his opinion and advice; which, circumstanced as they are, should


 XI.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS,
in continuation.
YOU cannot well suppose a situation so disagreeable as mine: the wife--the eloped wife, on one side; and the deserted husband on the other:--she weeping and trembling, he railing and threatening.--At last, I summoned courage enough to speak; and, addressing myself to the monster, I assured him, "however displeasing to an husband the step which my niece had taken, yet that she had solemnly cleared her innocence to her uncle and me, so far as respected the honor of his bed--that, though the disturbed state of her mind had not permitted much conversation; yet we understood, that she had always dealt honestly with him, in declaring a prepossession in favour of another--that, where a man married a woman so circumstanced, he must either have a very partial passion for the lady's person, or a very romantic confidence in her mind--that, so far as I could learn, she had not abused his confidence, but wished to decline it--that, having gained, by the death of her father, a small independence, it was her design to have escaped to Germany, where there are several Protestant nunneries, and there to have fixed for the remainder of her life; but that an accident had discovered her to her uncle; and, when he had brought her home, he thought it his duty to acquaint him with it--that, as a husband, who knew the nicety of an husband's honor, he even thought it expedient that Mr. Merisford should be certain to an hour, when she came into our house; since when, no creature but ourselves, and my own maid, had had access to her."--I was at the length of my argument, to which point I had arrived without the least interruption--the poor victim not daring to lift up her eyes--and the golden calf to which she had been sacrificed having employed himself in the contemplation of an amazing fine brilliant, which he wore upon a hand that nature designed for other decorations, but which seemed so devoted to the religion of its master, which is the idolatry of every thing dirty and every thing expensive, that it scorned an alliance with any thing so common and vulgar as soap, and to all appearance has kept clear of such company these seven years.--When he found I paused, he put his hand in his coat-pocket, and, pulling out a filthy pocket-handkerchief, which he displayed as an assistant to his oration, he began, "Why, look ye, madam, as to the honor, and the nicety, and all that, I be'nt so particular;--I married, because I was rich, and thought as how I ought to have an heir, d'ye see, to leave behind me, to keep up my name.--To be sure, miss told me as how she had a great regard for a young man, and he for she:--but her father know'd better, and giv'd her to me.--In Turkey, where I made eighty thousand pounds, I might have had as many wives, d'ye see; but I did not fancy they:--now, as I happened to see miss when I went down into Yorkshire, to see a main-fine estate that I had bought, and thought as I cou'd fancy her; I ax'd her father; and told'n what I had a gotten to make a jointure for her; and when I had his good-will, I did'nt stand shilly-shally, but come up straight to London, and got the writings finished out of hand. When I went back, miss knows I was not stingy in my mind towards her: I carried her a fine set of diamonds; and told her, when she could bring herself to fancy me, that she shou'd eat gold, and drink gold; and that, as for that there young man, d'y'see, the rarities and diversions of London wou'd soon put'n out of her head."--In the course of this


 XII.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS,
in continuation.
MY dear Charlotte must be impatient to get to the end of my narrative, and therefore, whilst Mr. Clement is in a fine sleep, I will give myself up to her. I have hitherto communicated only those feelings which sympathy produces; but, ere long, the character of the lamenting friend will be changed to that of the distracted wife! Heaven has been gracious, however, to my hopes; and my Charles can once more look up, and bid me be comforted. I mentioned, at the close of the last page, the arrival of Mr. Clement; but did not tell you that he was brought in a chair, fainting with pain and loss of blood! the monster with whom I had been sitting had, without knowing it, been the cause. Well did my heart inform me when first I saw him; and side with heaven and my Amelia.--Selby, just at the period at which I closed, came into the room, with more composure than I could have expected on such an occasion; and told me that her master was returned. This, as it was usual, did not alarm me; and my dislike to leaving the ill-matched pair alone made me pause;--by which time I heard Francis roar, "My master! my dear master!" That exclamation made me deaf to every other sound; my fears lent me wings, and in an instant I was down in the parlour, where they had rested, by his desire, till I came. It is impossible for me to describe the scene; nor, indeed, to you, who know us both, can it be necessary.-- When Mr. Forbes came, he examined the wound; and, by the faintness of his manner, in hoping all would be well, deprived me of all hope.--You know the sanguinity of my disposition--I cannot bear doubt in the cause of those I love;--however, the wounds were dressed; and Mr. Clement, in pity to my distraction, lay so quiet, that, by a kind deception practised upon me, he brought his own safety to a reality. An occurrence in favour of your maxim, Charlotte--by sacrificing to oblige others, we always, eventually, oblige ourselves.--My mind, however, was too much interested to be quick of belief; every favourable symptom engaged my gratitude; but the fear of an unfavourable one succeeding, lessened my present enjoyment.--For several hours after I first saw his deathly countenance, every other impression was erased from my memory.--I even lost the anxiety of distressing you--no wonder then if I did not enquire for poor Amelia, till she was gone, past recovery--the brute having taken advantage of the confusion of our house, to force her away; and, as the grocer at the corner of our street told Francis, hurried her into a coach amidst the curses of the passers-by, who no sooner saw, but they were interested for her.--Several days passed, in which I could not gain the least intelligence of either her or Charles--nor could I venture upon the subject nearest my heart, though I had reason to guess, from the first hints Mr. Clement dropped, that Merisford had been the cause.--Even now, he chuses to be silent on the subject; and though he cannot exculpate Charles, he pities him.--For oh, my sister, however shocking! it was Charles's sword which pierced my husband's side; and, had the wound been a sixteenth of an inch more central, it must have passed through his heart.--As far as I can collect from the different disjointed conversations we have had, which, however my curiosity prompts, I never press--that letter which Mr. Clement sat up the Monday night to write to Merisford, respecting the safety of his wife, and which his own delicacy pointed out






 XX.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MR. BELLAS. DEAR BROTHER,
I THANK you most sincerely for the packet of consolation you sent me by the doctor; he is quite delighted with the farm, and every thing that belongs thereunto--he assures me that he does not apprehend any danger to my sister; but seems to wish, as you hinted, that she would come to town to lye in--why will she be so obstinate? here is her own room, which I never suffer to be prophaned by common inhabitants; try if you can prevail upon her to use it, at least for this time; perhaps, by the next, you may have some person of skill in your neighbourhood;--mean time, dwell upon the consequence of improper treatment to the little one; and she will hear that, however deaf she may be to any arguments that respect only herself.--I have at last a letter from my poor Amelia--she is escaped once more, and in safe shelter in a convent in Germany.--She requests me to keep up a correspondence with her; and desires to be permitted to give an earnest of her esteem, by assuring me, that though her conduct has perfectly satisfied her own mind, yet its tranquillity cannot be compleat without my testimony in her favour. I have written to her, and accepted her offer with pleasure. It is astonishing to me, unless our souls were acquainted in a pre-existent state, how a few hours, which was all I knew her here, should have twined that unhappy creature round my heart--I really love her, like a sister--and know not why, except for being unfortunate.--That cannot be all--that might create pity; but I feel esteem--and that must be the produce of merit, at least imagined merit, in the object.--I promise myself and Charlotte great delight in perusing her history; and, as she has promised to divest herself as much as possible of the partiality of human nature, which her situation, I think, favors, it may mingle instruction with delight; for, grave faces may frown if they please, the human heart, honestly unveiled, is the best school of morality.
Mr. Clement is a good deal better; every fine day seems to bring him a large stride forward: yet the physicians think it will be necessary for him to go to some of our watering-places for a month or six weeks, as soon as there seems a probability of the weather being settled in a disposition of mildness. We did talk of inoculating Charles and Charlotte this spring; but, if we are obliged to leave town, I do not see how it will be possible.--I was lamenting this circumstance to Mrs. Belmour yesterday; and she said, she thought it would be a good opportunity of having it done whilst we were away--either at home under the care of Selby, or at Sutton's; which latter, indeed, she should prefer.--I love her vastly, or I believe I never should have spoke to her again. Mercy upon me! how can anybody be so indifferent about their children! Yet she seems to be composed of the milk of human kindness, and to feel for every body's illness or distresses.--There is a Mr. Deacon, who is an occasional visitor at Dover-Street; he has chambers in The Temple, and of course cannot be well accommodated in case of illness, having no servant but a valet, who is a Swiss, and whose only perfection is, dressing his hair; the master was confined for a few weeks last season, in the time of the influenza--and she was perpetually sending to know how he did; and, as he recovered, sending him jellies, blamanches, almond emulsions,
 XX.
and all sorts of kitchen-comforts, to the continual trouble and employment of the house-keeper who made, and the footman who carried them.
My kindest wishes to my dear Charlotte, and believe me equally thy
MARIANNE.
 XXI.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAR MARIANNE,
BEING, I thank heaven, restored to the use of my pen, its first-fruits shall be yours.-- Mr. Bellas did not like to resign the employment: but I insisted upon my right; and he has yielded, upon condition that I give up another point, in which I cannot withstand two advocates so powerful as you and he combined.--I accept then of my dear sister's invitation; and shall, with your permission, take possesion of my old lodging-room on this day sevennight--as I suppose another week will introduce the little stranger to our acquaintance. I own, I shall leave Frogly with regret, even though it be to come to you.--The spring is now in its morning-dress; in which, like a woman, whose chief beauty consists in a native elegance and a modest reserve, it yields, in my opinion, the greatest delight to the beholders, by shewing a part of its charms, and telling you, that there are others concealed, which the irresistible power of future suns will force to light, to bloom, to wither, and to die.--I have been somewhat distressed in the disposition of my family, in which I include the little mourners--at last I have resolved to gratify Sophia's wishes, by taking her with me, and leaving the two youngest under the care of Collins, upon whom I can absolutely rely:--she is rather hurt at not going with me; but she sees the necessity of staying with the little girls; and Sophia will supply her place, by sitting with me, packing and unpacking, &c.-- The good girl has a most amiable disposition, which makes her carry her gratitude so much beyond any little services I have done her, as to leave me on the debtor side of the account; in discharge of which, how happy should I be to save her from a connection which can never make her happy; and yet, I fear, it will be impossible--in the course of my accidental illness, I have discovered that her innocent heart is the property of a Mr. Powell, an apothecary who attended her father in his late illness; and, since that, herself.--He has been some years settled in the village; and since I have made this observation upon her conduct, I have taken some pains to enquire into his character, which I find to be a very opposite one to hers--in short, a bad one.-- She is all gentleness, benevolence, humanity--but has a mind above her circumstances; even in the effusions of her gratitude, there is a dignity that commands as much respect as if she were in the act of conferring favors beyond those which she acknowledges.--He is, by the general voice of the village, a timeserving, unfeeling,
selfish man; cringing, and mean to his superiors; insolent and fawning, by turns, to his equals; and at all times oppressive and overbearing to his inferiors. Collins has taken great pains--it is in her power to converse freely with all the middling and lower people of the village; and it is there that nature speaks without disguise.--Even in the part of his conduct which fell under my own observation, I found so many objectionable circumstances, that I was shocked when I found he had made an


 XXII.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I AM very happy at having obtained your acquiescence to my request; nor am I mortified at being obliged to an auxiliary whom I love so well as your husband;-- mine is, I thank heaven, almost as well as ever; and does not like the thoughts of leaving his little ones, to mix in the impertinent scenes which every watering-place must involve him in; for, however one despises others for their acquiescence with the reigning follies of the time and place they live in, one must do it one's-self, and be mutually despised by the few sensible people, whose esteem in any other situation would be, perhaps, one's due.--You do not know how sorry I am for poor Sophia-- bring her to town by all means; and, as that wretch Merisford said of poor Amelia, "Mayhap the rarities of London may put'n out of her head."--You have never told me whether the poor girls know any thing of their unfortunate brother--if not, I should imagine they ought, before Sophia comes to town; as perhaps, without lessening her merit towards you, the expectation of seeing him may be, partly, her inducement to come here.--Our Francis, who is a little apt to over-rate his own sagacity, has several times assured Selby, that he saw Charles, after we were informed by his servant of his death, by his own hand--yet the letter which he left for me, seemed dictated by an honest despair; and the act itself, however unpardonable if we consider suicide as defended by reason, yet under his circumstances, and the feelings natural in his then situation, called loudly for our pity, though it could not challenge our approbation.-- Yet I may be mistaken, but I remember it struck me at the time of receiving the letter, that the hand was materially different from any of his notes that I ever saw--but my mind was in such a state of apprehension for my husband's safety, that I did not pursue the thought any farther; perhaps there may be some mystery which I have not yet discovered. I should rejoice at any circumstance, however improbable the chance, that should restore so amiable a young man as he seemed to me to be, to the guardianship of his sisters, and the friendship of those who esteem him.--You will be able to tell me when we meet, whether the sale turned out advantageously for the poor girls, and whether you had so much christianity in your parish as you seemed to expect.--Mean time, if there be any thing that you would have done in the way of preparation for a certain great event, let me know it, and I shall be happy.--You know that we are to have Amelia's history.--I have desired her to write as fast as she can, but not to send it in divided parts, as the effect of the whole would, in my opinion, be injured, by reading it in such small parcels as a letter would contain; besides, about August, Mr. Clement proposes sending a young gentleman, whom he has in the compting-house, to a part of Germany very near where she resides, upon a matter of business in which he is concerned with a house which has lately stopped payment.-- He shall be deputed my ambassador on the occasion, by which means we shall run no hazard of losing so pleasing a source of entertainment as I expect this sweet girl's narrative to prove.--She seems possessed of a just and proper way of thinking--a head full of reflection, and a heart full of sensibility--add to these requisites, a happy choice of words, and the produce must be delightful.----Adieu, my dear! I must go and dress; we are this evening to exhibit our wax-candles in the rout-way--seven


 XXIV.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAR SISTER,
MR. Bellas having an inclination to finish a plantation he is engaged in before we leave Frogly, I deferred my journey three days beyond the time mentioned in my last, which shall, I hope, complete it. Mean time, I will cut out some work for the little girls, to employ them till I return.--Miss Freeman is really an amiable girl; and, notwithstanding she is entitled in right of her mother to ten thousand pounds, which will in about another year render her independent, she has been so happy in being endowed with a natural sweetness of temper, and those endowments so happily cultivated by her mother, who was an excellent woman, that she is as perfectly obedient to her father as if she looked up to him for bread; and her humility and gentleness of deportment towards her brothers, the servants, and every body indeed that falls in her way, have gained her the universal love of all.--I am vastly pleased in knowing so much of this young lady before I go to town, on account of Eliza and Henrietta, to whom she has shewn an affection almost sisterly; but, for what reason I cannot conceive, she don't like Sophia.--Her virtues, to say truth, are not of the shining kind; you must know her, to value her: whereas Eliza's liveliness, and Henrietta's beauty, strike the moment you see them, and have the singular good-fortune to improve upon you ever after.--There is but one objection arises in my mind to their being intimate, and that regards only Eliza. Doctor Freeman has six sons at home, all of whom he educates himself--the eldest of the seven is in the road to ordination; and as soon as he is inducted to the living which his father has just quitted, the eldest of the six takes his place at Cambridge.--Henry, Thomas, William, George, Francis, and John, are the prettiest little party you can imagine, to escort their sister and our girls to the rector's pew every Sunday, where they all sit together according to their respective ages.--Henry and his sister, Thomas and Sophia, William and Eliza, and George and Henrietta, are within a year (each as I have paired them) of each other's ages.--But though Henry is obliged, to please his father, who marshals the groupe, to couple with his sister, he takes every opportunity of coupling himself with Eliza, and she seems to have no objection to his mode of conducting the matter; but confesses, in the honest simplicity of fifteen, that she shall be very sorry when Henry goes to Cambridge, and wishes that Thomas had been the eldest.--As to Henriettta, she has more reserve, though seven years younger; but if she has a golden-pippin given her in the course of the week, she is sure to keep it till Sunday, unless she has an opportunity in the interval of making master George a present of it--he is, to be sure, the sweetest little boy I ever beheld--the finest form and face you can conceive--the most expressive countenance, not a line but speaks--eyes that pierce you to the heart, without giving pain, and the finest auburn hair in the world.--His disposition is, if possible, more amiable than his person.--He has the principles of natural benevolence so strongly implanted in him, that it extends even to things inanimate; and if he happens to fall in any of his playful expeditions, he is more anxious for the consequences to any body, or any thing he falls against, then even to himself--this you know, is a description that will answer for Henrietta too (he it seems is most like his mother); so that I do not wonder their little hearts palpitate by


 XXIV.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAREST SISTER,
I NEVER was so thoroughly surprized and shocked, as about an hour after I sent off my last letter to you. I told you that Sophia had received a letter from her brother; and as I did not doubt but it was a duplicate to yours, I equally dreaded and wished to see how she deported herself under the shocking news, which I never yet could summon courage to tell her.--When I first heard from you of his being engaged in an imprudent amour, I mentioned it to her, just in the light in which we saw it; she has often renewed the subject; but though my natural hate of equivocation made it painful to me to be silent on such an occasion, yet, in order to undeceive her, such horrid truths, as we thought them, must have been told, that I found the talk beyond my execution, and waited till you and I might have an opportunity of breaking it to her together;--and even brought the books, sermons, &c. which by his father's will became his, home to our own house, though I thought it likely that they might be the subject of a future sale; as to them, they were (of a kind to be) quite useless.--I had occasion to go into the house-keeper's room to speak to Collins about some matters, which were to be altered in my absence; and as that is a part of the house which I am very seldom in, it did not occur to Sophia, who had been every where else to seek me--upon going up to the room I commonly sit in, I found her with the two younger girls, in contemplation of Charles's letter; nor could I, from their countenances, guess at the contents--Sophia was in a kind of stupor--Eliza seemed as if she had been crying, without well knowing why--and the dear little sympathetic Henrietta was sobbing till her little heart-strings seemed ready to crack; upon my entrance, she ran up to me, and, laying hold of my apron, she cried, "Oh, madam, what will become of us now, when we leave you? we have no brother, no father, no friend that will love us, because Charles has been so naughty."--I took the sweet girl in my arms, and kissed away her tears--told her, that, whilst Mr. Bellas or I lived, she had no chance of being without a friend--that I had known, for some time, that Charles was dead; but did not wish to add to their distresses, till their spirits were sufficiently recovered to be able to bear it. Upon this, Sophia, who had not spoke before, threw herself at my feet, and, with great calmness, begged that I would give credit to the sincerity with which she had desired to attend me in my approaching illness; and pity her for the regret she should feel at being deprived of it--but that, in her circumstances, it would be a hardiness she was not capable of, to look you in the face:--that her brother was not dead; but that he lived only to remorse and repentance--that, in the very moment of desperation, when he had sealed the letter which conveyed his real intention to Mr. Clement, and had raised the point on which he meant to fall, his father's sacred shade appeared in view; and, by an awful frown, prevented the perpetration of an act so horrid.--But that his offences to Mr. Clement and his family were of such a nature, that though he did not dare, after so solemn an admonition, to expiate them with his blood--yet he would atone them with a severer penance, an everlasting exile from all that he held dear.--I raised the dear girl, and bad her be comforted; told her, that I knew the full extent of the unhappy young man's offences--and could pronounce, for you and my brother, his pardon:--that I was sure she would not be the less







 XXIX.
MISS MASON TO ELIZA MASON. MY DEAR ELIZA,
YOU do not know what concern your levity of temper gives me: it is unnecessary for me to say upon what occasion, how much I love you, and that it is not the expence of a new cap that deprives you of one--but, my dear girl, I dare not encourage in you a passion, the gratification of which is not within our circumstances.--You do not see the consequences, which a fondness for dress brings along with it, to women whose fortunes are circumscribed like ours.--Already has this passion (or some other which you should equally guard against) sown in your breast the seeds of envy, jealousy, slander, and even hatred. Even the honest and affectionate concession of your sister, who waiv'd her claim to a new cap, to promote your request, without encroaching on the impartiality which she knew I would practise in all my actions towards you both-- even this act of kindness you stigmatize as the offspring of conceit. Oh fie for shame, Eliza!--if she had been capable of conceit, she could not have been capable of such a disinterested action. Would you have made a similar offer, if she had wished for a new cap?--not you indeed.--You are now, my dear Eliza, at a dangerous age-- the morning of life shews every prospect in the most flattering point of view: beware of viewing your neighbour's fields, his flocks, his house, his garden.--Now, while the sun of youth shines before your eyes, and blinds them in the article of property, they may be beautiful; but they are not yours--take care then that you do not gaze till you become enamoured, for, ten thousand to one, they never can be yours.--I dare not be more particular; your happiness is principally concerned--but I am sufficiently interested in the event, to tremble whilst I write upon the subject. If you would oblige me, you would be as seldom as possible at the parsonage-house--nor can I think it decent to dance in those rooms where we so lately wept over such a father. Henrietta is a child; but at fifteen reason may operate, if passion will give it leave. However, I am still your sister,
SOPHIA MASON.
 XXX.
MISS MASON TO ELIZA.
MY DEAR GIRL,
WHAT effect my last letter, which was dictated by the truest sisterly affection, will have upon your mind, I know not; but as Mrs. Collins, in a letter to her lady, mentions the ball, and does not mention you as one of the party, I own I am flattered with the hope that your own understanding took my side of the question, and determined you to stay at home in a decent retirement, rather than mix in those delights which only happier situations can render truly pleasing.--Mrs. Bellas is brought to-bed, and (thank Heaven) as well as can be expected--but the dear little boy is dead.--She saw


 XXXIII.
MISS MASON TO ELIZA.
MY DEAR ELIZA,
WHAT unaccountable whim has taken possession of your brain, to the utter exclusion of all those sentiments of benevolence and social affection, which it was the business of our dear parents to inculcate upon us all?--Rancour and malevolence seem the reigning passions of your heart; and that liveliness, which used to appear so amiable when exerted upon subjects in themselves innocent and inoffensive, is now challenging the enmity of those who used to admire and love you, by putting on the likeness of detraction and malignity. Pray, what proofs have you that Miss Greenway's legs are crooked? or, if you had, by what rule of humanity do you reproach her with what you should pity? Then, why that unwarrantable supposition about her feathers? If I had sent you a new cap, it must have had feathers too.--Does the conscious want of any advantage in ourselves warrant our abuse of those who possess it?--if so, my dear, you may rail at all the young ladies you associate with; for which of them is an orphan so destitute as you! So far I will conceal your folly-- though the obligations, we are all under to our present guardians and benefactors, will hardly allow me to consider myself entitled to a thought which shuns their participation. Mrs. Bellas is recovering apace, and proposes, at the close of three weeks, to go to church; and in a day or two after return to Frogly. Mr. and Mrs. Clement set out for Bath next week; and the two eldest children go with us to Frogly: the youngest is not so well as it has been--it had yesterday a convulsion-fit; and Mr. Clement, having taken it into his head that Mrs. Clement's anxiety for some time past has injured her milk, has insisted upon her weaning it.--Pretty creature! I hope it will do well--but the old women in the country would give it up, if they saw the anxiety of the parents about it.--They will set out, I find, on Sunday morning, Mr. and Mrs. Clement, nurse, and the little beauty--they are very fond of all their children; yet they part with the other two with a seeming unconcern, compared with what they feel for the infant.--Desire Mrs. Collins to write to her mistress, and give her an account of the house-linen; particularly those articles which want any addition or alteration; as Mrs. Bellas has lost the memorandum she brought with her. I do not believe I shall write to you any more before I see you; but as we are more apt to remember what we read, than what we hear, allow me, my dear Eliza, to give you an elder sister's caution. Guard well the avenues of that little heart, upon the disposing of which your future happiness or misery depends--here, at a certainty--possibly hereafter. I have perceived, and your letters confirm it, that already you feel a preference; that is a step towards making a choice--but, should a person chuse what is not in their power to obtain, and fix their happiness upon that choice--what alternative remains but misery?--Henry Freeman (I must speak plain) is a fine youth; but I think, without prejudice, the best part of him is visible--he seems vain, haughty, and positive in his own opinion.--But grant him all you think him--he is not now his own master; nor does he weigh the value of those words, which to you are confirmations strong as proofs of Holy Writ. He speaks as he thinks at the moment, perhaps; and the next he thinks of something else--you imbibe with a thirsty kind of pleasure the professions of his mouth, and, when he is absent, treasure them up in your heart. Oh, Eliza! I


MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS.
Bath.
MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
WE arrived here last night, after an easy two-days journey; and, bating the teazing circumstance of being hurried away from you, a very pleasant one. Mr. Clement bathed this morning, and has been in very good spirits, and free from pain ever since. I wish he may be able to reconcile himself to staying here as long as will be necessary to compleat his cure; but of that I almost despair, as you know his dislike to every thing that is public, in which he would never mix, but to please me. Bath is now very full; but the rooms, they tell me, are quite out of fashion; and, except on the ball and concert nights, quite deserted for private card-parties at the houses of the inhabitants. The circus and crescent are most beautiful buildings; the latter I think too much exposed, for a place of constant residence--the heat and cold are violent in their turns; yet there are not above five houses uninhabited. I hope to hear that you gather strength--the fine weather is greatly in your favor; yet I must entreat you, not to let your eagerness to return to Frogly make you too venturesome--pray do not leave town till the full expiration of your month--my house, my servants--my every thing is yours; why will you not consider and use them as such, and then you will be at home? Mr. Bellas cannot have finished his business yet; so I hope that will detain you a few days; for I know you would even mortify yourself to serve those amiable orphans. Sophia is really a most deserving young woman: I wish it was possible to divert her from that attachment you so much disapprove of; but persons of her grave turn are much more out of the reach of amusement, than others of a more vivacious cast, whose minds, being more apt to catch at variety, suffer a succession of ideas, in themselves ever so different, to take possession, each in their turn, and in their turn disappear, and return no more. If the summer passes without any farther progress being made in the matter, I will ask her to spend the next winter with me in town; and perhaps that may give her mind a different turn: but, of all things, avoid reasoning her out of it; for it has been proved, by many an instance of fatal experience, that the ablest head is by no means a match for an infected heart. The pump-room is all in a bustle; every body here knows every body's affairs; and, from the antiquated virgin, who endeavours to make chastity atone for the want of every other virtue--to the pert coxcomb, with pink-sattin heels to his shoes, who does not pretend to any virtue at all--every individual is a self-erected judge of every other person's conduct. It seems, the person who leads the band in the Pump-room has a family of seven or eight children, who are all possessed of very uncommon talents in the musical way--his eldest boy plays solo's, though he can scarce hold the violin; and his eldest girl sings like the music of the spheres; but the old gentleman himself, not choosing to be a mere non-entity whilst his family are in the road of contention for fame--has lately distinguished himself by a passion for a pretty plump West Indian--a married lady, who is here for the benefit of the waters--and the delight of admiration; the poor creature is actually (or he counterfeits well) gone mad upon the occasion; and the invalids are obliged to drink their waters without the inspiring sounds of his


 XXXIV.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAR SISTER,
I THANK you for your kind remembrance of me. I am much better; and propose returning to Frogly on Monday next, with your two little ones in my train;--would it had pleased heaven to have added mine! but Providence best knows how to dispose of its creatures! Yet, with every degree of submission the human mind is capable of to that great over-ruling power, I am sometimes tempted to enquire, in my own mind, why an existence should be given only to be taken away again?--If man be created, as we are sometimes told, for the purposes of society, why is he not suffered to answer those purposes? what purpose has my little infant answered? he has been born--and--he is dead! Mysterious power! oh, teach me resignation to thy will! nor suffer that reason, which is a possession derived from thee--from thy free gift--to be employed in a rebellious opposition to thy dispensations! Mr. Bellas is very kind in his intention; he conceals the concern which I know he must feel; and thinks, by amusing me, to lessen mine: but, though the reserve of which my nature partakes on all occasions may have operated on my conduct in the present case, my heart is not less susceptible of the feelings of a mother--and the relief I feel, from this partial effusion of my grief, convinces me that the tears of nature should freely flow. I am sorry to be ungrateful; but I think I should have loved Mr. Bellas better, if he had mixed his tears with mine; the loss was mutual--mutual should have been the lamentation:--perhaps I wrong him--I hope I do; but I think there is an unusual coldness in his manner to me of late. You know I am not of a jealous turn--my mind is of a species between that and the confidence which indifference only can inspire; but I do not like his manner towards Sophia, nor the suffusion which spreads on her cheek, when, in common conversation, he makes those appeals to her judgement, and those remarks upon her conduct, which used to be mine alone. I think I was wrong in taking her under my roof;--if my suspicions are just, never let any woman, after me, whose husband is worth losing, take to her bosom a snake that may, even innocently, sting her. I have the highest opinion of Sophia's morals;--I believe she would fall a sacrifice to an improper passion, rather than resolve to gratify it; but human nature is, in all its works, imperfect--else, what need of a world after this? here is every thing but--perfection; and, in things inanimate, almost that--it is we, who flatter ourselves with being the noblest, that are the most imperfect work of nature. You may remember the anxiety he expressed about her supposed attachment to Powell--it was more than natural for a man uninterested--men do not, even the best of them, animadvert so severely upon each other's conduct, unless their feelings aid their
judgement.--However, upon mentioning to him yesterday the paragraph in your letter respecting her, he replied warmly, "Oh dear! there is no occasion for Sophia's being torn from Frogly--she does not feel a propensity to Powell that is worth opposing--it is impossible a girl of her sense should make a choice so unworthy." My heart filled--I did not venture to say anything, for fear I should say too much. But I will have done with this subject; which perhaps the weakness of my body, and consequently my mind, may represent in a more serious light than it deserves. Your dear little ones are very well--Charles cryed for two hours when he missed you; but,



 XXXV.
 XXXVI.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT.
MY dear Marianne's kind endeavours to lessen my anxiety, however new
circumstances of conviction prevent the operation of her wishes, has all the thanks I have to bestow. I received your letter just as the carriage came to your door to convey us to Frogly. I was ready.--Sophia, who had been packing up all the childrens playthings in the seat of the coach, was not quite dressed, otherwise we probably should have been set out; however, when the post-man presented a letter, which I knew to be yours, I could not resist the pleasure of reading it--we all stood in the fore-parlour; and Mr. Bellas, upon seeing my cheek flush, I believe, as I read, asked me how you all did.--I said, Pretty well; and put the letter in my pocket, without offering it to him, as I commonly do all the letters I receive:--He only smiled, and said, "Some female secrets, I suppose?"--I replied, "Not very secret;" or some such thing;--and, by my faultering and stammering, made him and Sophia look at one another, I thought, very significantly, and then at me.--However, his delicacy prevented his asking to see the letter; and I thought myself well out of the scrape.-- Having taken leave of all your family, I stepped into the coach; and, after Mr. Bellas had put in Charles and Charlotte, he gave his hand to Sophia, who, springing towards the step with, I thought, a guilty sort of sprightliness--turned upon her heel, and wrenched her ancle so violently, that she screamed and fainted.--Mrs. Selby, who stood at the door to make her curtesy, laid hold of her, and led her back to the parlour by Mr. Bellas's assistance; whilst I sat in the coach, almost stunned with my own reflections. About three minutes passed before I recollected that humanity required my taking some notice of the accident; so, desiring Philip to attend to the children, I got out of the coach, and went into the parlour, where I found Selby chafing her foot with vinegar, and Mr. Bellas familiarly supporting her on the sopha where she sat.--I stifled my feeling, and asked her how she did.--She could not look me in the face whilst she answered me.--Mr. Forbes, whom Selby had called in, by this time arrived; and, having declared that it would be injurious to her to take a journey in her present situation, ordered her to bed, and said he would send her something to embrocate the part affected.--Mr. Bellas then called to Philip, and desired him to unload the baggage, and send the coach away.--Now, it is probable I should have done the same, had he left it to me--yet, knowing my anxiety to return to the country, I thought he might have paid me the compliment of consulting me. However, I did not
think myself authorized to speak my opinion.--I stayed till she was put into bed; then, taking an opportunity to go up stairs as if to take off my calash, I threw myself on the bed, and gave vent to my tears, and stayed there, without seeing Mr. Bellas, till Selby came and announced dinner. I came down with a heart still heavy enough, unloaded as it had been by three hours draining; and as soon as I saw him, it broke out again.-- He asked me, with a dissembled concern, why I wept? and affected to understand it as the effect of my apprehension for her. He assured me, that Forbes had no doubt of her being able to set out in a day or two.--I said, that I should be very well pleased to return to Frogly as soon as possible: and though I am sure he saw my embarrassment, and was not less embarrassed himself, he took no notice of either; and, Philip taking
his place, prudence forbad any further appearance of it on my side. We passed the
evening without ten words on either side--tea was brought, we drank it, and were still

 XXXV.
silent:--supper was served, and we still remained so, each of us amusing ourselves with a volume of Melmoth's "Liberal Opinions." I had the first volume; and, upon reading a passage in the epistle of the unfortunate lady to her parents, I could not help exclaiming, "Good Heaven! who can read thy description of vice, and not start at its first approaches!"--He seemed affected--and pretended, when he found I saw it, to be reading the elegy on the Nightingale, at which you know we have all wept in our turns.--Before I went to bed, I called upon Sophia, and stayed with her till I thought he was asleep.--She seemed once more to be the amiable good girl I thought her.--I really began to chide my own folly, in a thought prejudicial to either her or my husband.--I left her at about one o'clock, and stole softly into bed, where I lay several hours without being able to close my eyes: at last sleep came; and, just as I was going to give it welcome, by hoping that all my fears were vain, Mr. Bellas started, and cried, "I have lost my boy; let me not be deprived of every thing that is dear to me;"--and then, at some distance of time, whilst I was tormenting myself by applying his fears to Sophia's illness (for she had a good deal of fever), he cried, "My wife! my wife!" A new consideration then took place.--Sometimes I thought he uttered those last words with an accent of tenderness--then, the foregoing exclamation might relate to me.--I had very lately been in greater danger than she could be.--Then again, my fancy, recurring to some of the circumstances so recent in my memory, gave the sound of lamentation, or satiety, to WIFE, and rent my very heart-strings.--I could not sleep--I rose and dressed myself; and, about eight o'clock, went again into Sophia's room.--Her fever was much increased, and her mind seemed to me to be the fountain of her disorder.--At night she became delirious, and has raved incessantly of Mr. Bellas and me ever since.--Mr. Bellas sees my suspicion, which this has strengthened; and, whether from the resentment of affronted virtue, as he would call it, or whether from a conviction that he has nothing to say, we have not spoke these two days.--I shall wait an interval of returning sense, and question Sophia--till then, sleep and rest must be a stranger to your
CHARLOTTE.
 XXXVII.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT.
OH, my dearest sister! why should a wretch like me be all the care of Heaven; and suffering virtue, like Sophia's, be punished with a life of misery? Let no woman, who has not known her trials, say her virtue is victorious, nor triumph in a conscious superiority, which accident alone, perhaps, has given them.--I told you in my last, that I would watch an interval of sense, to question her upon the subject which tormented me, and, as I imagined, was the cause of her distraction. Having resolved to be silent for ever to Mr. Bellas till this dreadful uncertainty should be removed, I was glad of an opportunity of sitting up in Sophia's room, without making unnecessary discoveries to the servants.--About ten o'clock on Thursday evening she fell into a fine sleep, from which, Mr. Forbes said, "every thing might be hoped."--Upon this opinion, I sent Selby to bed; and anxious for the moment that should remove suspense, with the fullest confidence in her veracity, I waited her awaking from

 XXXV.
intermediate hours by talking of him to me, took the small-pox, and died--and, about four weeks after, her excellent mother followed her to the grave. Frank was now his own director; and my confidence in his constancy, which could only be equalled by my love, represented him to my fancy every hour, as coming to call upon me for that hand and heart which never could be another's: But--fatal to my hopes!--he came to London to administer, saw you, and forgot the lost Sophia!"--My blood was chilled; I had not power to speak; she wiped her eyes, and then proceeded.--"Just at this time my brother Charles came home, and, in answer to my enquiries after Frank, said, with some affected pleasantry--"He is gone to town, Sophia, and London is the bane of constancy."--I answered with an asperity of which nothing else could have made me capable--"Yes, brother, such constancy as your's--but my Frank is above the reach of accident; nor time, nor place, have power over souls like his."--My brother was silent till I left the room; and then told my father that he had a letter from Frank, in which he confessed a recent passion for a lady of uncommon merit, and that he hoped to marry her.--My father, whose heart was a repository of every virtue, could yet excuse almost every thing in others; he was neither surprized nor angry; but, knowing how firmly my heart was set upon Frank, he thought it his duty to speak with me before I saw him, that I might be prepared to treat him properly.--I never had disguised my feeling to my father; I begged therefore that he would not impose upon me a talk so impracticable, as feigning an indifference I could not feel--that, if he insisted upon my not seeing him, I would obey him; but that we might still hope that my brother was mistaken. My poor father only exclaimed, "Woman! woman!"--and changed the subject. Soon after this, my dear mother, affected I really believe by my sufferings, fell ill, and died.--Mr. Powell was just come into the parish, and had attended her; and, in the course of her illness, took particular pains to recommend himself to me. My father would not speak; but he wished he might succeed; and I, to gratify his wishes, tried to transfer my affection from him who slighted, to him who sought it; but, in the conflict, my peace, my self-approbation, was lost, and nothing gained. I had loved--had not, at a certainty, lost the object, and could not love again.--At last, after an absence of eighteen months, Mr. Bellas came down.--I saw him pass--but it was to prepare for your reception.--I heard the business of his errand, and had sufficient power over myself to avoid him--but still I loved.--He married you, brought you home--I visited you, admired you, applauded his choice-- but still I found I loved him.--But now a new scene opened to my tortured fancy-- hitherto my love was folly--now it was guilt!--My father's continual exhortations-- Mr. Powell's attentions--my own conviction--all concurred to banish from my heart its tyrant; when my father's death, and his consequent goodness to me, which I verily believe had no source but benevolence, replaced him there again, and brought me to the gates of death.--When I recovered--your kindness relieved me from one source of anxiety, by shewing me that you did not suspect me.--But when your charity towards three helpless orphans induced you to ask us to your house, what perplexity can equal mine!--To comply, was ruin to my peace--to refuse, was to involve my innocent sisters in the punishment of my crimes; and, till our little inheritance was
ascertained, we had no alternative. Ever since, I have lived in the horrors of despair-- conscious guilt has weighed me down; and, unless absolved by you, I can neither dare to live nor die."--Here Selby gave us a seasonable interruption. Adieu!
CHARLOTTE.
 XXXVIII,
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I WISH you had not sent me a partial account of your affecting scene with Sophia. I have cried myself into a nervous fever about the dear unhappy girl--yet I know not what portion of pity or of blame to bestow upon your husband.--Hang Selby! her impertinent intrusion has left me in a state of suspence the most painful I ever felt.-- What shall we do with the amiable unfortunate? for, at all events, she must not live with you.--You should consider it as a duty to her, as well as your husband's virtue and your own peace, to resolve upon that: and yet, she must not be distressed.--Mrs. Colville, the sprightly Creole I once mentioned to you, is here; and was telling me the other day, that she intends in August to leave England for about three years; in which time she means to make the tour of Europe. A Gentleman and his sister accompany her; and she said that she should be very happy in finding a fourth, of amiable disposition, and an improveable mind, to go at her expence.-- Now, if Sophia could be sufficiently known to her, I am sure she would like her exceedingly. Suppose you send her down to me with Charlotte? I think the journey would do them both good; and I will immediately introduce her to Mrs. Colville, who is really a benevolent good woman, in spite of the unexpected possession of a fortune enough to turn another body's brain; for it seems she was a woman of no original, but carried over to the West Indies as a governess or companion to a young lady, where she married one of the richest planters on the Island; and, in about four months, became a widow, with the consolation of fifty thousand pounds--which she has used to the effecting of many valuable purposes; and the young lady whom she accompanied having married very unhappily, she every New-year's day sends her a present of a bank-note of a very considerable value. Mr. Clement has had a severe attack of a bilious complaint, to which he has been subject many years; and will therefore be obliged to lengthen his stay here a week or two;--if therefore you can send Sophia down directly, I shall have time to effect her introduction to Mrs. Colville. We have a great number of people of fashion here at present, and a proportionate quantity of scandal. Matches in abundance are in agitation, that the parties themselves know nothing about--and work cutting out for Doctors Commons by some others who this very time last year eloped to Scotland. Dress rages like an influenza--and it is more than probable that the feathers of our common poultry will in a year or two sell for more than the flesh; for it is impossible that foreign birds can supply the increasing demand. The company seem in a continual state of fluctuation; new faces appear every morning, and old ones vanish. The first ball-night the new comer is distinguishable by the moderation of her head-dress; but in the course of her stay, though it be but a fortnight, she seldom fails to strike a bold stroke to be foremost; particularly if she happens to be old or ugly; for then it absolutely depends upon the number and size of her feathers, whether or not she has a chair at the card-tables, or a chance of being known by a single creature in the ball-room.--There is a story somewhat similar to that you have sent me, which engrosses the attention of the better part of the company here--only that the lady has not the comfort of recollecting that her attachment took place when her villainous lover was single. His name is M----; he has, it seems, for many years, took every method of conciliating her affection, without once alarming her virtue; and even made

 XXXIX.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT.
MY dear sister need not chide me for pausing at the period--beyond which I was not able to go;--for consider, my dear Marianne, if you are so much affected at reading, how I must feel at writing on the subject!--The poor girl was so exhausted by the time Selby came, that I thought she would have fainted away. I desired her to give her some barley-water, and to go and prepare breakfast.--She understood me, I believe, and immediately went out of the room. As soon as I thought her able to answer me, I told her--that, with respect to those feelings of hers which formerly were innocent, and were now rendered otherwise only by situation, I did not doubt but she stood acquitted by heaven, if she endeavoured to labour against them--that it was a very clear case to me she did so, and that those conflicts occasioned her illness.--She shook her head in acquiescence, sighed piteously, and was going to speak; but I chose to spare her, and went on--I assured her, that she had lost nothing in my opinion-- that I held her entirely clear of offence against me; but that, if she thought otherwise, she had my free pardon.--She blessed me for the comfort I had given her; and begged, that if I had any remaining doubts respecting Mr. Bellas, which could affect my future happiness with him, I would ask any questions I chose, and rely upon her, as she hoped for mercy in another world, for the veracity with which she would give me an answer. I then recapitulated the observations I have made to you--begged of her to account for the coolness which she must have observed latterly in his conduct towards me--and asked her whether they had had any private conversation, and upon what subjects?--She confessed, that she had perceived an alteration in his manner; but believed it was at first the gloominess which was occasioned by the loss of our little infant; and, since that, a resentment of a supposed sulkiness in me--that she had known his temper, and studied it many years, and found that he always resented cooly--that she believed he very sincerely loved me; but that, if I was not quite so retired in my disposition, perhaps it would be better;--that his mind was rather apt to stagnate, and that my dislike to variety of company rather increased than remedied that disease--hoped I would pardon her dictation--but that it was very possible to be too good.--I then repeated my question, whether they had conversed in private since we had been married? she answered, "Yes, ma'am, once; and upon this very subject; but I then found my mind so weak, and so fatally inclining to hopes that were improper, that I resolved never to hazard a second conversation."--"But did he speak of his former affection for you; and lament his change in my favor?" "No, madam; it would be a baseness I am not capable of, to say he did:--he is an excellent man, and all your own; long may the happy union last! and never more may even its momentary intercourse be soured by the remembrance of a wretch like me!--but, after what I have told you, do not suffer me to be exposed to daily sin--do not ask me to your house--nor think me ungrateful if I beg to be forgotten as I would forget!--my peace of mind requires the sacrifice--I esteem, I reverence, I value you--but I love your husband.--Time may enable me to preserve and cherish the one feeling, and conquer the other; at present they are inseparable--absence may aid time--permit me to make the trial."--I took out your letter; and, modelling your request so as to prevent its appearing like an act of necessity, I told her, that, as soon as she was well, I would entrust Charlotte to her care, to convey to you. She rejoiced exceedingly, and seemed

 XL.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS.
ACCEPT, my dear sister, the congratulations of a heart that palpitates to every emotion of thine! Convinced of your husband's innocence, your friend's virtue, and, what would flatter some women much more, the triumph of your own victory; never let me hear that you are grave again.--And now, my dear, since Sophia has begun, let me strengthen the opinion she has advanced.--You really are too good.--Mr. Bellas certainly loves you, and you merit his tenderest regard; but I have often trembled for the consequences of your dislike to all those little fooleries, you chuse to call them so, which, by interrupting your tęte-a-tęte now and then, would give you both a double relish to it when you were of necessity alone.--Mr. Clement would have been just such a good domestick man as you are a woman; but do you think I should have loved him half so well if he had persisted in it, as I do now for his having relaxed a little to indulge me, till by degrees he got a something like an inclination to it himself? Lord! my dear, your billing and cooing days are, nay they must be, over.--Do not be frightened, Charlotte; I love my husband, and he loves me, as well as you and your swain can do, for your lives--but does that imply that we should love nothing else?-- believe me, that is the language of romance, this of reason;--and I will maintain it, that two of the best people in the world may sit at home, till they grow tired of themselves and of each other.--We were born for society; why should we impertinently set up a nature, and a set of laws, of our own? You cannot imagine how much it is in our own power to alter what we call our natural dispositions.--We imbibe habits early in life, and that we call nature--but we are deceived:--it is at the option of almost every one we converse with, particularly if we love or admire them, to give a bent to our inclinations;--for instance--I used to detest cards--and comment with great wisdom upon the absurdity of rational creatures finding amusement in ranging a certain number of pieces of painted paper in their hands, and, having first stampt upon them a pecuniary value, giving them the additional power of torturing them almost to madness;--yet, to oblige Mr. Clement, I condescended to study this very art of being ridiculous; and, for aught that I can see, with all my former wisdom about me, am not less conspicuous in the science than those who learnt to distinguish the mattadores with their alphabet.--Then, Mr. Clement used to love the same set of Mr. and Mrs. C----, and Mr. and Mrs. D----, and never desired to see a soul he could not value and esteem, and all that.--Lord! at that rate, one might as well wear one sacque all the winter, because it was not worn out--and wear it till one ceased to value it, for its very service.--Now, I own that in my heart I love your honest simple pairs mightily--but then I like now and then to see people of less merit, if it were only to enable me to give--as poor Sophia said--to give to Virtue, Virtue's due.--Oh, Charlotte, here is a packet from the compting-house, enclosing a letter from Amelia.--She tells me that she has gotten pretty far in her history--but that she is almost ashamed to send it, on account of its extreme length.--She says, that, when she set about it, she was in hopes a few pages would contain all the incidents of her insignificant life--but that she found very often so many little circumstances aiding one action--which yet, in justice to that action, must necessarily be set down, that she feared it would extend infinitely beyond my patience to peruse it, considering how uninteresting it must be to any second person;--that she had a
 XXXV.

 XLII.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. DEAR SISTER,
WE arrived at the Farm about the same time that Sophia reached Bath, being prevented by an untoward accident, which happened to one of the horses, from setting out till next day: as soon as it was known in the village that we were come home without Sophia, various conjectures were formed on the occasion--however, Mr. Powell thinking himself warranted to enquire into particulars, he first sent to know how we did; and then called himself, and begged to see me. After the usual civilities, he asked, when Miss Mason would be at Frogly?--I told him, that was uncertain-- that at present she was with you at Bath. He seemed greatly hurt, did not endeavour to conceal it--and, having requested your address, took his leave, intending, I suppose, to write to her.--Soon after he was gone, I had Sophia's letter; and am sorry to find she has not seen your friend, as I should be happy to know she was out of Powell's reach.--I don't know why, but I dislike that man vastly; so does Mr. Bellas; and yet there is a something very pleasing in both his person and his manner--but I feel a prejudice, that even the distinguished passion he declares for an amiable woman (which is certainly a strong recommendation of him) cannot remove.--He took Henrietta on his knee, gave her sweet-meats, and told her, "that, if she was as good as her eldest sister, every body would love her as he did." There is another apothecary set up here; who has, it seems, got most of the parish out of Powell's care--he is a younger man still; but he has a manner towards the servants and labouring people, that has endeared him to every body. Now, whether Powell thinks an alliance with Sophia would strengthen his interest, or whether he really loves her, I cannot decide--but it runs in my head he will have her, though I wish, and shall labour, against it.--She told me, "that she had endeavoured to transfer her affection from him who slighted, to him who sought it;" so that by her own account he stood second in her opinion; and, having set in earnest about forgetting the first, perhaps he may stand a better chance than he deserves.--You may think me obstinate, if you please-- but I cannot agree with you in respect to the choice of one's company--when I can ascertain a pleasant evening with Mrs. Greenway, or a useful one by myself; why should I, for variety, sacrifice three hours to Mrs. Barton's ostentatious display of fine cloaths and expensive laces; or Mrs. Paget's still more ridiculous passion for talking of herself, her husband, her servants, and her cats?--Mr. Bellas is of the same disposition; and that, I should think, a reason for my perseverance, rather than for changing my system.--Similarity of tempers has ever been said to be an omen of happiness; but you love to take the side of the question difficult to support; and, indeed, my dear Marianne, with your happy flow of language, I do not wonder at the singularity of your design.--You certainly have wrought wonders upon Mr. Clement; but then you brought him only to be more like yourself;--as nature has done all that business for me, I think I must endeavour to be content.--So far, however, you have converted us both, that we resolve to spend four months of every future winter in London. Now I hope you will be quiet; and when we are there, let us see you and Mr. Clement as often as you can; a few other friends (still select ones) may be admitted; and once or twice a week, when good plays are acted, we may devote our evening to


MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
ALL our schemes for poor Sophia are at an end.--I told you that Mrs. Colville meant to spend a week at Bristol: but the little gypsy has cheated us all; and, under that pretence, has made a transfer of herself and her fifty thousand to a young clergyman, to whom, it seems, she was attached previous to her leaving England.--If he be as deserving as a gentleman who told me of the circumstance describes him to be--or if she thinks him so--I shall love her always for her disinterested preference of him to several mighty pretty gentlemen, and some with good estates, who are left here in a state of the most ridiculous disappointment.--His name is Baker; he is of a Devonshire family.--Mrs. Colville, whose maiden name was Chandler, was the daughter of a reputable tradesman, and brought up at a boarding-school at Exeter as a half-boarder, where she was taught all those ridiculous accomplishments which serve but to dis-qualify a woman for the very end of her creation--that of being a good wife and a good mother; for what business has an English tradesman's wife with the knowledge of French? and how is it to be expected that a girl, who has spent the first sixteen years of her life in learning music, dancing, drawing, &c. should descend to the domestic duties of her kitchen and her nursery?--Hence the many bankruptcies amongst the husbands of those who do marry men of business, the only people who are likely to marry them!--and hence the number of unhappy girls who pay for an improper education with the expence of their happiness, their innocence, and their fame!--Miss Chandler, however, was more fortunate.--At this school there happened to be a miss Benson, who had been sent over from Barbadoes for an English education, and committed to the care of some relations at Exeter. It happened that she was in the number of those ladies whom miss Chandler was, by the duties of her situation, to dress and undress;--this brought on an intimacy; and, she being a very pretty, humble, and yet gentlewoman-like kind of girl, miss Benson and her relations became so fond of her, that, when Mr. Benson sent for his daughter home, in order to marry her to a young planter of great property, miss Chandler was requested to accompany her, under the conduct of a black female slave, who was sent over on the embassy.--Mr. Baker, who was the son of another tradesman in the same city, was, at this time, an admirer of miss Chandler; but his mother, who, it seems, had been educated as a whole boarder at this very school, and had adopted a sufficient stock of folly and idleness to ruin her husband, was so shocked at the meanness of his ideas, in thinking of a girl who was a kind of a domestic by being obliged to dress and undress four of her school-fellows, that she forbad him to pursue the matter, on pain of her displeasure--nay, her curse.--Miss Chandler had too generous a passion for her lover, to suffer him to hazard a parent's disapprobation; she therefore accepted very chearfully her young friend's invitation.--At taking leave, her lover pressed her much to promise him that she would never marry any other person; and bound himself, by the most solemn ties, to observe a similar fidelity.--She very prudently declined taking any vow; and released him from his; which, however, he never violated;--but soon after being presented with a living of about seventy pounds a year in Cornwall, resided there, without ever quitting his parish, till she with a generosity which even

into a house there at noon; and I am sure they cannot visit any body--but their
landlady!--Sophia is gone with nurse and the two children to take an airing;--for my



 XLIII.
 XLVI.





L E T T E R L.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAR SISTER,
SEND Sophia down instantly--Eliza is lost--I never suffered so much as within the last two hours. Collins is distracted, for she loved her like a mother. That wicked young man--what can he expect? The Doctor is very angry; but he should have foreseen and prevented it.--Yesterday evening we were all invited to the Parsonage­house: Henry Freeman being this morning to set off for Cambridge, we drank tea, and spent the evening there.--About eleven o'clock our carriage came, for it had rained all the evening; and, as Eliza stepped in, she turned about to Henry, who handed her from the drawing­room out, and said, "Well, remember."--I took no notice of it, because I thought it only the natural consequence of their intimacy, and that she was reminding him of some boyish promise to write to her, or some such thing.--This morning Henrietta came down to breakfast alone, her frock only slipped on her arms, and not pinned.--She went up to Collins, who had just stepped into the room before her, and said, "Pray, Mrs. Collins, be so good as to pin my frock; my sister Eliza got up so soon that I had nobody to help me."--"Where is Eliza, my love?" says Collins; and, without waiting for an answer, ran out of the room;--we all followed, one by one--and having spent an hour in a fruitless search all over the house, garden, and meadow--Collins ran to the Parsonage­house, to see if Henry was gone--immediately guessing at the unfortunate truth.--Doctor Freeman raved--and the other boys laughed.--Miss Freeman shed some tears of modesty and sweetness, and then said, "If my brother has injured the confidence of Eliza, half my fortune shall be hers, and I will never see his face."--Collins came back, invoking blessings on the sweet girl; and, as she returned, met a gardener in the lane, who had seen Eliza and Henry go off together in a single-horse­chaise, about four o'clock in the morning. We sent to the only house in the village where it could have been obtained; and find, that Henry bespoke it yesterday evening about eight o'clock.--I recollect we missed him and Eliza about that time; so that probably it was then they agreed upon her flight. We have sent Philip in pursuit of them; if they be gone on to Cambridge, we shall hear something of them, though perhaps not what we shall like to hear;--but, if they should have taken any other road, heaven knows what may be the consequence! I do not think him a young man of principle; but, indeed, in his situation, how few youths could shew their principle! Unfortunate girl! Charles's misfortunes had been enough for the family; lost to his relations; and probably all his hopes of future success in life blasted--a self­exiled wanderer, out of the knowledge of any who could serve him;--yet it is possible that he may recover himself:--but poor Eliza! excluded by the severe dispensations of an unforgiving world from the advantages of future prudence! an hour-- a moment's folly to her must probably be fatal!----We have just had intelligence that
the wretched fugitive is gone towards London.--Gracious heaven! what will become of her!--to search in such a place for an unknown individual, is almost ridiculous, and must be fruitless.--What shall we do?--Doctor Freeman has sent his coachman and footman different roads--sure we shall hear something to­day.----Good heaven! here is a



L E T T E R LIII.
L E T T E R LIV.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I DO not know that I ever was so thoroughly shocked as at reading your character of the man to whom I had but an hour before seen Sophia give her hand. From the performance of the ceremony we returned to our house, where Mr. and Mrs. Belmour, and Mr. and Mrs. Baker, waited to join our party, and proceed to Shuter's­hill. The miss Dean, whose name I believe I had mentioned to you, acted as bride­maid, and Mr. James Clement as bride­man--my Mr. Clement gave her away; and I went because she desired it. Mr. Clement, miss Dean, Sophia, and I, went in the coach; and Mr. J. Clement and the bridegroom followed in the chariot; but, as we returned, Mr. Clement and I took their vehicle, and the four young people came home together.--By the time we had drank a dish of chocolate round, and the horses had been fed, to please Mr. Clement, your letter was brought to me. I opened it with some apprehension, on account of Eliza. But, when I saw the real contents, I thought I should have fainted--my looks told so much, that I was obliged to shew Mr. Clement the cause. He was rather angry, than hurt; and, observing that the whole accusation rested upon the evidence of a servant, he said he wondered that you, who had so much caution in matters of less consequence, should be so easily convinced in one of so much importance; and that your Collins, or our Selby, would say as much of any of us, the moment they were out of our houses. I own, I was very willing to take his side of the argument; and why, my dear Charlotte, should we not suppose he may be in the right? at least, upon your own injunction to burn the letter, and forget the circumstance, I was justified in hoping the best--for caution was then too late.--About two o'clock we set out, a party often, to Shuter's­hill, where we dined, drank tea, played at cards, and supped; and about eleven o'clock, the moon in its full glory, and four servants well­armed to protect us, we took leave of the new­married pair, without any other ceremony than we should have observed towards each other. Thus, under the conduct of Mr. Clement, we passed a day which, in general, wears a face of aukwardness and restraint, with the utmost ease, chearfulness, and good order. We all got safe to our several destinations; and dine together to-day at Mr. Belmour's, in Dover­Street. I cannot however dismiss the apprehensions with which your letter has filled me. Do you know, that I think you owe it to Mr. Powell to search the matter to the bottom? He seems much devoted to the sex, I confess; but I cannot think him capable of harbouring a thought injurious to an individual of it, much less of the horrid unmanly acts of which he is accused; his whole behaviour yesterday, not only to Sophia, whom he seems to venerate, but to the company at large, gave the lie to his accuser. Is she not some artful woman, who may have formed some designs which his marriage with Sophia must interfere with? At all events, the die is cast; and consideration, which is invaluable when antecedent to an act, by being out of season is become useless, and almost impertinent.
I made Sophia, at parting, promise to write to me. She begged to be excused; and modestly said, that I should trade upon very unequal terms if I were to give her my letters for her's; and yet that she should perhaps be unreasonable enough to expect it. I did not



LET T E R LVII.
MRS. BELLAS TO MRS. CLEMENT. MY DEAR MARIANNE,
WE all dined yesterday at the Vicarage--the invitation was, by the Doctor's desire, from Mr. and Mrs. Henry Freeman. Eliza was placed at the head of the table; the Doctor next her on one hand, and I at the other, Henry occupying the married man's place at the lower end of the table.--George and Henrietta dined at a side­table by themselves, and seemed to partake largely of the general joy;--next to the Doctor sat Sophia, and on my left hand Mr. Powell.--I own myself a convert; if he be a villain, he is the best counterfeit of an amiable character I ever saw; he behaved extremely well to Sophia; but I thought she did not seem so happy as I could have wished.--I am afraid her head is not at peace on a certain subject. I never saw a woman conduct herself better than Eliza--nor could I have supposed that it was possible for sixteen to assume such a dignified propriety.--It is not easy to decide whether the Doctor or Henry love her most; nor could a father, whose son had brought a hundred thousand pounds into his family, shew more respect to his daughter­in­law--in short, they are all happy in each other, and seem to have but one object of contention, and that is, who shall oblige most. The Doctor told us, after dinner, that his little house-keeper, pointing to Eliza, had given him the trouble of forming a new plan for the disposal of Henry--for that he should be ashamed to send a married man to school--that he was therefore somewhat at a loss, and should be glad of our advice.-- Mr. Bellas told him, that he should think it very eligible for Mr. Freeman to speak his own sentiments--that, if he liked a country gentleman's life, he had a farm which he should rent on his own terms, or purchase at a fair appraisement: and that, if he did the latter, all the live-stock should be his gift to Eliza, by way of dower.--The Doctor smiled at the word purchase, and said, "Why Mr. Bellas--I have been a good subject, and Henry seems inclined to follow my example. I married at twenty myself, and have seen myself the father of seven sons, all of whom, except the eldest, you see--and nine daughters, eight of whom are with their excellent mother.--Fanny was all the hopes I had of comfort in my old age; but now I have got another chance for it in Eliza."--She blushed, and shed a tear of satisfaction; which he enjoyed, and then went on--"the consequence of so large a family is obvious--I had but a small patrimony of my own, and that must descend to Arthur my eldest son. Mrs. Freeman had not a shilling when I married her; but, in the course of our living together, she had ten thousand pounds left her, with remainder to Fanny.--I have never touched a shilling of it; though she is so good a girl, that I, or any of her brothers, would, I am sure, be welcome to share it." Here her answer was necessary.--"Indeed, Sir, says she, I should be very undeserving of your good opinion, if I lost so happy an opportunity of approving it--suffer me now to declare thus publickly, as I have done to my brother and sister alone, that half my fortune will give me more happiness in settling them advantageously, than the whole could, laid out for myself--and, if they approve of Mr. Bellas's proposal, we will have the estate valued; and, the moment I am of age, if five thousand pounds will pay the purchase, it is theirs."--Every tongue was for a moment mute, in token of applause; and all at once


L E T T E R LIX.
L E T T E R LX.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. MY DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I WONDER I have not heard from you.--I had adjusted all my matters, with intention to have set out as this day for Frogly--but I suppose I am not to be so happy. Something has occurred, to discompose Mr. Clement so much, that I cannot think it right to leave him; he would not desire me to give it up, because he knew how much I wished to see you; but I know he will be the better pleased with my stay, for that reason. Charlotte has had a little return of her feverish complaint: I have sent for Dr. B----; he thinks she has worms, and is now treating her accordingly.--Charles's parole is lengthened--you are like to keep him now till spring, unless he grows troublesome; if so, I will send Selby for him whenever you please.--I wish Mr. Osborne was come home. I am afraid the stagnation which the mistake I hinted at has occasioned will embarrass Mr. Clement greatly; and, in aid of that misfortune, a house at Boulogne, in which we are deeply concerned, has stopped payment. You know trifles do not affect him; but he is really so depressed at present, that I am apprehensive for his health, as well as his credit. May that Power, who knows his worth, preserve both to him! and him to his children and me!--I am greatly shocked at looking back to the many superfluous guineas which in the course of seven years of uninterrupted prosperity we have lavished away. Yet Mr. Clement is not extravagant in any of his propensities; nor has indulged himself in any expence that did not seem greatly within his income; but, when I find of how much consequence a few thousands would now be, and then carry on a train of reasoning from thousands to hundreds, from hundreds to twentys, and from twentys to pounds, and so down to the minutest article of what we call trifling expences, I am really culpable in my own opinion. I do not know whether the Boulogne business has got abroad; but there have been more calls for money since Monday last than in any four days since we have been married; and, should it continue four days more, it would be very inconvenient.--About the seventh of last month, we ventured a ship richly freighted to Ireland, without insurance; and, should any accident happen there, as misfortunes are apt to accumulate, Mr. Clement must lose two thousand pounds at one stroke; the advice of her safe arrival is hourly expected: I hope this day's post will put an end to suspence upon that subject. One of Mr. Clement's favourite horses has lost an eye, and almost killed Francis, who happened to be riding him out, when the accidental clashing of two carriages turned him against the ballustrade of a house near Chelsea, and one of the spikes ran into his eye;-- the poor creature was very ill for several days; he is now quite recovered, and Mr. Clement thinks of sending the set to Tattersal's, to be sold to the best bidder; for every trifling sum is now of consequence; and the sale of horses is a double advantage, both on account of what it brings, and what it saves. Indeed the keeping of horses is the only subject on which we ever disagreed; but he loved the idea; and he had an undoubted right to indulge himself.--Selby is another useless expence; and I intend to take the first opportunity of getting rid of her: but the artful creature has wound herself about my convenience, by never chusing to take any wages--my cloaths have always supplied her,


LET T E R LXIII.




L E T TER LXVII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT. DEAR MADAM,
IN order to introduce some early anecdotes of myself, it is necessary that I go back to the remotest period of which I have any knowledge, either from my own memory, or the relation of my mother, whose veracity was ever unquestionable;--as to her unhappy choice of a husband was owing my misfortune of not being allowed to chuse at all.--My mother was about twelve years old when my uncle Charles was born, who, being the first son, though the seventh child, was, from the moment of his birth, the principal object of his father's attention. His mother, however, who was by all accounts a very amiable woman, but not possessed of any great understanding, was perhaps blameably partial to all her daughters, but particularly to the eldest, who was my mother.--This difference in sentiment produced many misunderstandings between the parents, who, from the birth of my uncle James (a year after his brother), never lived in the same apartment. My mother and three of her sisters were sent to a boarding­school in Yorkshire, to save expence-- and the two younger girls with their brothers still remained in the nursery--till the small-pox made a fatal visit to the family, and carried off both the girls--my uncle James hardly escaping the same fate. My grandmother was inconsolable; and, to reconcile her in some degree, her husband, who had not lost the feelings of humanity, though he had quarrelled with her, sent for my mother from school.--She was then about sixteen--and had been four years at that seminary of folly, specious idleness, and viciating romance.-- She was taught to read, but not to think--to dance, to sing, to do every thing but what was useful.--My father, who was, when she was sent there, drawing­master to the school, had contrived to render himself agreeable to her--and in the course of her stay, by the death of a distant relation, became possessed of a considerable estate in the same county, which I suppose did not injure him in her heart, particularly as, from her father's partiality, she had little to expect in her favour.--Just at the period when she was sent for, my father had brought matters to such a crisis, that she had consented to marry him privately.--However, she had too much filial piety to refuse to obey the summons--she came, and found her mother very ill, and in a few days after followed her to the grave.-- She was then in a situation truly pitiable;--having lost her mother, neglected by her father, and her head brim-full of the recent solicitations of a lover, whose suit her heart had granted, though her understanding pointed out many objections. Just as she was about to return to school, her father called her one day into his study--and, having prepared her for the proposal with more tenderness than she had reason to expect, told her, that a gentleman of about fifty (three years older than himself) had made overtures respecting a marriage with her; and, as a friend, advised her to accept it; for that he was willing to make her a very good jointure; which, as he was not in circumstances to give her a shilling, was not likely to be met with every day. She remonstrated upon the inequality of fifty and sixteen: but he was very laconic upon the subject; and told her, that she might either marry his friend, or prepare for her journey as soon as she pleased; and that Rachael, her next sister, must come home and keep his house. Mortified at this

L E T T E R LXVIII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
AS soon as my mother returned to school, my father made her a visit of condolence.-- Having once taught there, he had always access as a general visitor; but now, upon hearing my mother's account of her reception at home, and her father's proposal of a match to her; Mr. Thompson, who either loved her extravagantly, or fancied he did, avowed himself her lover, and declared his intention to her governess; who thinking him a very good match for her, and considering her as an orphan from the recent circumstances that had happened, encouraged his addresses, but insisted upon my mother's writing for a formal consent, previous to her actually being married.--To this they both consented, but from the native sense of filial duty (which I well know requires more acts of cruelty than one to destroy it); but--her lover (for, on this occasion, I would fain forget he was my father), finding her so cheap in a parent's estimation, began to think her love might be had upon easier terms than matrimony:--he therefore, with well­acted reluctance, consented to her postponing the day of marriage till her father's answer should arrive; hoping, in the mean time, to find a cause to make it unnecessary.--My mother wrote to her father by her sister Rachael, in the most submissive and filial style her understanding and her feelings could suggest--told him, that, as he had expressed a wish to see her married, and had been kind enough not to constrain her to marry a man she could not love, she was now encouraged to ask his permission, to marry a gentleman more suitable to her years, who had it in his power and inclination to make a provision for her perhaps fully equal to the other; that she however could not reconcile it to herself, to accept of him, or any other person, without his approbation; and that the gentleman was ready, whenever he could obtain leave, to wait upon him, to make known his own sentiments.--Her father was much affected by her letter, and, being a man of quick and transitory feelings, became as fond of her as he had been neglectful:--he sent down immediately an invitation to the lover; and desired his daughter to prepare for her return to town in the course of a month at farthest; expressing, at the same time, the kindest wishes for her future happiness; and confessing that his behaviour towards her, for the last three or four years, had not merited such dutiful returns on her part.--Her heart overflowed with those feelings which it must ever be in vain to describe;--those minds, whose peculiar happiness it is to possess them, will conceive from the situation what they were;--and those, who possess the negative happiness to be without them, would not understand the description, though given by a Shakespeare or a Sterne.--As soon as the letter arrived, she communicated the contents to her lover, who, disappointed as he was of gaining the consent which he expected her despair would dictate on her father's refusal, was not without a resource in his own idea;--besides his natural propensity to acts of cruelty, in which he has so signalized himself since that time, he had then another fancy, or (as he would call it) an attachment, to the daughter of an attorney of some eminence, whom he had met with at York races;--between his engagements to my mother, and his latent passion for this lady, he was exceedingly embarrassed, and


L E T T E R LXIX.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
AS soon as breakfast was over, the subject was renewed; and Mrs. Edwards, who was less surprized than my mother expected, joined in all the arguments that were in favour of the point; said, that their marriage was a subject much talked of for several months all round the country; that, if she returned as Mrs. Thompson, nobody was authorized to ask any questions when or where the ceremony took place;--that she, for her part, would never be the person to throw a doubt upon the matter; but that, if they would agree between themselves what should be said upon the subject, she would always, in all companies, make her declarations coincide with theirs.--My mother, whose honest and ingenuous nature was shocked at the ready disposition to falsehood in a woman no way interested in the deception, interrupted her impatiently.--"Mrs. Edwards!" says she, "what need of so many lies, upon a subject where truth would cost less trouble? Iam not married--why should any body say I am? why should Mr. Thompson allow me the happy consciousness of telling truth without blushing for it? He said last night, he would marry me this morning--why do you not, Sir, (applying herself to him) go to York, as you said you would, and procure the licence? why am I kept in suspence, in a strange place, without a friend, without a parent, without my innocence, which would have enabled me to seek and find both?--He told her that, however his passion for her might have hurried him beyond the bounds of prudence, he was not to be taught what he owed to her, and to himself;--that he did not love obligations to people he did not like; and that, as her father had shewed himself an unnatural kind of man to her, he had rather not owe him the civility of asking him to his house--and that therefore he would not go to his;--that, as to marriage, he thought it only made people quarrel, and live uneasily together, when they knew they could not separate; but that, for his part, he loved her so well, that he could not refuse her any thing she should ask for herself; and that therefore, if she made it a point, notwithstanding her dislike to the state, he would marry her; but the time must be left to him; and that, mean time, his heart, his house, his purse, were open to her; and that, as the world would judge and talk upon certain old­fashioned principles, he should think she had better avail herself of Mrs. Edwards's kind and friendly advice, than, by a romantick attachment to what she called probity and integrity, and such stuff, proclaim her own shame, and make it inconsistent with his situation in the world ever to call her his wife."--I am shocked at the picture I have drawn of a man from whom I derive my being;--but such I am afraid are the pictures of more than half mankind--fawning, and acquiescent, till they have nothing more to ask; then, insolent, and reproachful, and ungrateful!--upbraiding the unhappy victims of their artifice with those crimes which, in the eye of a just and impartial God, as they have originated with, must be chargeable upon themselves!--Such was his conduct from that first day, till the last day of my poor mother's slavery; and that last day closed her eyes in peace.--But to return to the immediate point.--Mrs. Edwards again joined her employer, for such he appeared to be;--and my mother, whose innocent mind was as long as possible blind to


L E T T E R LXXVII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
MY grandfather having waited a fortnight, with the utmost impatience, for a return to his letter, sent a servant express with another to the school, supposing the former to have miscarried.--Mrs. Monson (the governess), who had heard from her sister the whole transaction, wrote an answer, just to inform him that his daughter was married to a Mr. Thompson, a gentleman of considerable fortune in the county of York, and was gone home to her own house.--That, when she left school, it was her intention to have waited on him previous to her marriage; but that she understood that some accident had happened on the road, which prevented her from carrying that design into execution;-- and, giving him her address, referred him to herself for particulars.--As soon as the servant returned, he wrote to my mother, chiding her, though gently, for not permitting him to have the satisfaction of disposing of her hand to the man of her choice; reminded her that she had no opposition to expect from the style of his letter, which he found she had received--and concluding with a very kind invitation to her and her husband, to be present at her sister Rachael's wedding, whom he was going to give, by her own desire, to the son of a worthy friend of his, who was just returned from the Indies, where he had gone when a child, and had brought over an ample fortune.--There is nothing so painful to a generous mind, as to be loaded with kindness which it cannot repay:--how heavy then must be the burden, if one dare not even acknowledge it!--Such was my mother's unhappy situation.--Her letters came opened to her hands; nor did she dare to write one, without the restriction of a similar exhibition.--As soon as she received this, she begged permission to thank her father, if it was not agreeable to accept of his invitation;-- remonstrated upon the unkindness of such a prohibition, as excluded the reciprocity of Nature's duties; that her being his wife did not cancel the ties of daughter, nor of sister; and pointed out the large field which such restraint might prove for future uneasiness.-- This, to a man of feeling or of understanding, might have had some weight; but my poor father was innocent of any such possessions;--his property was his only boast, and, speak of what you would, he was sure to answer you by a display of his independence.-- This indeed is the prevalent error of all those, who, born to no hopes, and educated with no prospect, by any unfortunate chance come to the possession of a fortune disproportionate to their little souls--therefore, in that single point, exterior circumstances might be culpable;--but the superior cruelty of his heart could proceed only from itself.--In short, he took upon him to answer the letter himself, upon a principle of false delicacy, similar to that of a man who married a woman knowing her to be in love with another; and after they were married, though in circumstances where common honesty called for every exertion of their talents for the support of their family, refused to suffer her to obtain, by a laudable use of hers, a very considerable sum, lest other men should impertinently fall in love with her.--O sentiment! sentiment! how art thou perverted! Similar to this was my father's reason for answering my grandfather's letter himself--it was inconsistent, he said, with his feelings, that a wife of his should


L E T T E R LXXI.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
THE last visit but one, which we had from my brother and Charles during my dear mother's lifetime, she saw in my manner something that alarmed her; and, calling me into her closet, she began in words something like these: "My dear Amelia, says she, you are tottering on the brink of a precipice, from which no hand but that of a divine over-ruling Power can snatch you;--yet, as a mother, my duty calls upon me to warn you; as a child, you owe me a serious hearing, and a candid declaration of your real sentiments."--My mother had always taken the happiest method of securing my confidence; from my earliest infancy, she taught me to consider her as my friend, my companion, my instructor, and my partial judge.--There was not a thought of my heart that I would wish to conceal from her; therefore, requesting her to explain her meaning, I promised her to deal with every degree of candour and truth towards her that she had through my life practised towards me, and inculcated upon me for my general conduct.--She then told me, that she had observed an unusual gaiety and gloominess, by turns, to take possession of my mind at the times when Charles Mason was in our family--particularly this last vacation;--that she, for her own part, saw no objection to the young man; on the contrary, that she thought very highly of both his head and his heart; but you know, my dear, says she, that it is neither your opinion, nor mine, that can dispose of you--have a care, therefore, Amelia; for, should you place your whole hopes of happiness upon one object, and that object should happen not to please your father--misery must ensue;-- you know how peremptory he is;--you know too how absolutely destitute I am of the power to serve you; precluded by my husband's tyranny from the converse of my father for many years before his death, I was not considered in the distribution of his fortune; and, scantily as I have been provided with the annual supply of my own and my children's expences, it has not been in my power to make the least provision for a case where his displeasure might affect you.--Should he see half so much as I have done, I tremble for the consequences;--check then, in time, my dear girl, the approaches of a passion which has so many chances against it.--She paused; and I replied,--and, with all the openness of an honest heart, unveiled the inmost feelings of mine. I told her, that I certainly had a very tender friendship for Charles; and that I had some reason to think my father saw, and did not disapprove it;--that he had even jested with me upon the subject, with more than his accustomed share of pleasantry; and that I could not suppose, that he, who inveighed so loudly against other parents, for forcing their children's inclinations in marriage, however unhappy his temper, would practise the same cruelty himself. My mother cast a look of anguish and approbation; and prayed ardently to heaven, that I might never have cause to change my opinion.--About this time a Mr. Wilson, a man of mean extraction, who had amassed a great deal of money in a very unamiable manner, had met us at some neighbouring visit; and made, next day, proposals to my father; which he, to my great joy, rejected; nor could I ever since conceive by what motives he was actuated--unless it was that he had been hurt, when we dined together, at Wilson's


L E T T E R LXXII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS CLEMENT,
in continuation.
SOON after this escape from one source of misery, another, more fatal to my peace and my mother's life, ensued.--My father, though he did not love his children with much tenderness, had an ambition to leave them in such situations as to make a figure in the world; especially my brother, who was now a very fine scholar, and had displayed understanding and abilities to give wings to a parent's fondest hopes. My father's principal ambition was to have him in parliament; with this idea, he thought it better to sell out of York, which he considered as supplied for many years to come; and buy into some other county.--This scheme he communicated to Mr. Perrin, who was very famous for buying and selling estates. About eight months of tolerable tranquillity succeeded the storm I have just recited; in which time my brother brought Charles home again, and saw us plight vows of eternal love; when Mr. Perrin, who had endeared himself to us all, came over one day, just as we had sat down to dinner, and told my father, that he had a chapman in his eye for his Yorkshire estate; and that, if he could strike that bargain before he could conveniently meet with an object in his own idea, there was a pretty little house, with a few acres, where he and his family might reside, till a purchase in one of the counties he wished for should offer; but that he must sell directly, if at all, as the Nabob was impatient to purchase, and would, he believed, be down in two or three days.--My father, who thought all happiness consisted in being rich, asked, with great eagerness, whether the Nabob was a single man? Mr. Perrin answered, "I believe so, Sir; but he is past fifty; so he will not do for miss Thompson."--"I don't know that, says my father; Amelia is not such a fool, I hope, as to think her age any rule for her husband's." My mother was going to speak; but he stopped her mouth with, "Come, Madam, don't you fill the girl's head with notions like your own;--I think you refused a man of fifty at her age, did not you? and what have you been the better for it? You refused him, I remember, to marry me--and now we are both growing old together--so that where is the difference whether a man first grows old, and then his wife? or whether one combs a grey head, and the other shaves a grey beard, at the same time?" There was a mixture of pleasantry in this ill­natured recapitulation, that did not always appear, to soften his rebukes; yet it was sufficiently well mixed to convey just what he intended--a jest to Mr. Perrin, but a dagger to my poor mother's heart;--and it was felt accordingly. She was effectually silenced; and I did not venture upon so dangerous a subject: besides, I don't know whether all young people feel as I did; but there is still an internal support, derived from hope, that aided me in every conflict.--My heart would fill, and often overflow, for my mother's sufferings, which were, for the last six years, principally on my account; but for myself, I seldom wept, or even apprehended any ill, though ever so probable, till it actually came upon me.--Then I had read of daughters who had been persecuted by fathers to the very eve of marriage, and had by prayers and tears disarmed the cruelty of such unnatural parents, and escaped the threatened evil.--Nor was I destitute of that confidence (at least I thought so) which is derived from religion, and which generally


L E T T E R LXXIII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
AFTER my fall, I had been put to bed, where notwithstanding my past agitation, or perhaps harassed by its violence, I soon fell asleep.--My mother came up to my room, and, taking a book, sat by my bed-side till I awoke;--then, after such enquiries as her tenderness prompted, she told me that she had a commission from my father, which she was obliged to execute, and hoped I would not be so averse to what he now proposed as on former occasions, as she had seen and conversed with Mr. Wolfe, and approved of him so much in that little time, that she could wish I would at least deliberate before I absolutely refused.--I burst into tears, and told her, that my heart was not my own; that, in my brother's presence, and with his approbation, I had exchanged vows of fidelity with Charles;--that, if I were to marry another man, I should not be able to make him a good wife;--that, notwithstanding all her sufferings with my father, she must have been supported by remembering that he was the man of her choice; but that, had she received similar treatment from another man, she could not, with all her native goodness of heart, have done with such persevering merit her duty.--She shook her head, and replied, "My dear Amelia--that is the mode of judging natural to nineteen; at your age, I should probably have reasoned in the same manner; but it is a delusive medium through which you look; it is the medium of passion. Or call it reason--I have as many arguments to apply on the other side of the question, and they shall be reason too.--All human attributes are imperfect, and none more so than reason;--for instance, in the very case in point--why may I not expect you to believe me, when I say, that, perhaps, the recollection of your father being the man of my choice has added a new sting to every mortification I have suffered from his caprice and his cruelty?--It is certainly true, and yet I grant your arguments found well too.--Had I married the man my father proposed to me, I had not had the painful remembrance of disobeying a parent.--He might have behaved better to me than Mr. Thompson--so far I had been happier;--had he behaved worse (though that is almost impossible), I should not have had the occasions for reproach and upbraiding, which, with all the patience I could muster, I have not always been able to forbear; nor had he an opportunity of putting me in mind of a weakness, which (though my will did not then consent to it), my virtue, had I not loved the object, and feared to have lost him, would have secured me against, though at the expence of my life."--Here we were interrupted by a message from my father, who had finished his own bargain, and was so anxious to settle mine, that he had insisted upon the gentleman's staying all night, that, if I was not able to come down that evening, he might be sure to see me in the morning.--I resolved to take advantage of my illness for that evening. However, next day came; I got up and dressed myself; happy in my mother's assurances, that, though she wished me to acquiesce, she never would be instrumental in putting a constraint upon me, which she had ever condemned when practised by other parents towards their children.--I went down, and was introduced by my mother, who apologized for my not having come down the evening before, by reciting the accident I


 LXXIV.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
I had run up to my room, and thrown myself in a great chair; and was revolving within my own mind the unfortunate situation into which a few words, spoken in the warmth of an undivided heart, had plunged, not only myself, but my father, my mother, and a deserving man (for such I persuade myself Mr. Wolfe must be), and even, in all probability, Charles himself.--I began to look back, with an eye of reason, over those rocks and quicksands which passion had borne me over on fancy's wings.--Charles had not a shilling--I, without my father's approbation of my marriage, must be equally destitute.--Was a marriage, on such terms, the road to happiness? Certainly, no. Was it likely, that, refusing a man to whom I could make no objection, my father, or even a better father, would ever consent to give me and a competence to a man whom he had thrown into such a light of contempt? Certainly, no.--Was it most my duty to persevere, in spite of conviction, to marry Charles, to the utter ruin of us both; and, perhaps to the miserable means of propagating beggars; of seeing those little innocent sufferers want the comforts of life, and hearing them, in the cries of nature, upbraid me as the cause;--or, by giving up a preference, make my parents smile, a worthy man happy, myself independent, my children, if I had any, ornaments to society, and blessings to mankind; and, at the same time, leave Charles free to make a happier choice, where his merit might render him equally acceptable, and where peace, plenty, and happiness, would be the substitutes for, perhaps, repentance, poverty, and woe?--This, I have often thought, was a flight beyond nineteen; but it was inspiration--it was the voice of heaven: happy had it been for us all, that I had persevered in the opinion!--but it was not to be. My mother, whom I had heard in her own room some time before, gently tapped at my door. I opened it; and, throwing my arms round her neck (for I saw she had been crying), I begged of her to forgive me the misery I had caused her; and told her, that I had run over the matter, and all its consequences, in my own mind; that I was convinced of my father's right and her's to dispose of me; and that henceforward I would be ruled by them.--She thanked me, and said, "that it might be of use on some other occasion; but that she believed Mr. Wolfe was gone for ever; and that my father was so enraged at the supposition, that she did not know that he would ever see me again;--that, at all events, he insisted upon my assigning some cause for the unpardonable rudeness I had been guilty of; otherwise she was commissioned to tell me, that my own apartment should be the extent of my liberty."--I was shocked at being supposed capable of doing any thing from being threatened, that I should not more readily do from a principle of duty.--I told her so; and she replied, "My dear girl, you are not now to learn that your father don't think upon those refined principles; however, if you comply with his requisition, he will not trouble himself about the motives; let it be duty towards me--I love that compliance best." Whilst we were in this conversation, a servant came to my door, and, speaking aloud at the outside, informed me, that there was a letter for me, to which my father expected I would send a proper answer. My mother opened the door; and, taking from his hand, she

L E T TER LXXV.
MR. WOLFE TO MISS THOMPSON.
MADAM,
THE singular occurrence of yesterday, and the effect it must produce upon your present and my future happiness, call upon me to explain my sentiments; and to leave it to your generosity, whether or not I may deserve a reciprocal attention from you. The moment I saw you leave the room in disorder, I thought it my duty to quit your house, because there seems a peremptory mode of proceeding in Mr. Thompson's manner, which, however his exertion of it might flatter me on this occasion, I am incapable of taking any advantage of. I love you, madam; very ardently and honestly love you;--but I love you as a man should--declining that happiness which must be dearly paid for at the expence of yours. I should again ask that pardon which you generously gave me yesterday, when an expression somewhat similar to this escaped me, on your father's mentioning some young gentleman's name, and attaching to it the happy epithet of your favourite;--but, madam, though I think as highly of your delicacy as I do of your beauty, I dread the influence of a father's authority, where it is used in a case so unavoidably productive of long years of happiness or misery.--Nor can I help censuring that parent, who attempts by violence, or, what would be more effectual towards a mind like that I conceive you to possess, soothing persuasion, to bias a child in the only action of their lives where only two peoples' consent should be considered as essentially requisite.--I have said thus much on the subject, however foreign, or rather opposite, it may seem to my purpose, only to convince you, how dear your happiness is in my estimation. If, after this, I should be happy enough to merit your distinction, I shall, with confidence equal to my love, take you to my arms, and put you in possession of an heart whose first beatings have been for you.
With respect to myself, my family and fortune, every particular shall be laid before you;--for the present, I will only say, that my ancestors have been, for many years back, men of fair characters and independent circumstances; but, their families enlarging within the last fifty years, my father, who was the youngest of nine children of a gentleman in the South of Ireland, was brought up to a reputable business; and, when I was about thirteen years of age, and the third of seven sons, at the earnest solicitation of a brother of my mother's, he suffered me to make a voyage to India--which has been so fortunate in its consequences, that in fourteen years I have made, by honest industry, unstained by human blood, a real fortune of sixty thousand pounds. Had I been less conscientious, I might have been more wealthy; but three or four thousand pounds a year, with a guiltless mind, is a richer possession to me, than as many millions, with the death or the curse of a fellow­creature annexed to it.--I mean to employ fifty thousand in purchasing estates;--ten thousand I have vested in the public funds, and settled its produce, for life, upon my mother; at her death, it is to be divided equally between three sisters and two brothers, who are all, out of twelve children of our parents, who survive to enjoy their brother's good fortune.--I thought this explanation my duty. If a heart untouched by any previous passion, in such a person as now offers it, can be found

L E T T E R LXXVI.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
MY mother staid a considerable time with my father; and then sent up for the letter.--As soon as it was gone, my thoughts again were free.--I began to think, that, were it possible for me to dissemble my feelings to Mr. Wolfe, and trust to time and his worth to give him that entire possession of my heart which his delicacy so well deserved; some untoward accident might discover my secret, and shew me to him in the light of an impostor--a horrid character!--How must such a man despise a woman capable of such a conduct!--and for me to behave ever so unexceptionally, after such a discovery, would only seem a well­acted hypocrisy:--besides, what kind of truce must I make mean time with myself? how appease those reproaches, which every little occurrence of life might furnish me with?--These reflections distracted me to a degree of irresolution what to say or do;--when my mother returned, with Mr. Wolfe's letter in one hand, and an answer dictated by my father for me to copy in the other.--Had the contents been unexceptionable--the mode was in itself a falsehood.--Mr. Wolfe desired, he said, that it might be written by myselĘbut he did not say any thing about who should dictate.-- These kind of literal truths, and substantial falsehoods, I was no stranger to; but my soul started with indignation from the practice of any thing so base.--My mother thought as I did; but it was not her business to say so on that occasion.--However, to bring matters as nearly as possible to a crisis, she proposed a medium, and told me, that, if I would write an answer, meaning the same as my father's, she would endeavour to reconcile him to its being sent by the messenger, whom he had detained almost by force till it should be ready; and that the credit she had gained with him, from the message I had sent, and from a supposition that she had influenced my conduct, left her no apprehension of carrying that point.--As to my poor father's dictation, it would have been impossible for any woman, worth a man's having, to have avowed its language, or its sentiments; it was not consenting, it was asking--and that in terms not extremely delicate.--I took pen, ink, and paper; I began, and blotted; and at last I wrote the following:
"SIR,
THE delicacy of your sentiments, and the sincerity of that passion, of which, however unworthy I feel myself, I harbour not a doubt, demand every return of gratitude and esteem.--The subject is a delicate one, and, after the laudable conduct you have hitherto pursued, I am convinced you will excuse my enlarging upon it.--Happiness is your due--may you long enjoy it, as an encouragement to virtue; and a proof, that to be desirous of bestowing bliss is the surest road to attain it!--My father and mother present their compliments; and desire me to add, that they shall always think themselves honoured in your company.--I remain, Sir, with the sincerest prayers that heaven may send you every blessing you merit,
Your much obliged
AMELIA THOMPSON."
My mother carried this down; and though my father did not think it sufficiently explanatory, and swore it was the worst letter he ever knew the fool the write, he sealed it, and suffered it to go.--I passed three days in a state of the most painful suspence; at the end of which, I received another letter from him, complaining of the uncertainty in which I left him, and begging that I would authorize him, either to believe or contradict a report he had heard, of my being on the point of marriage with a gentleman of the county of Worcester nine months before; and, if it was true, how far my own inclinations were concerned in breaking­off the match;--in short, whether my heart was disengaged, and, if so, whether he might entertain a hope--on which condition, he should not lose a moment in availing himself of my father and mother's kind invitation; but that, if he was forbid to look forward to the possession of my affection, he hoped they would excuse him if he declined exposing himself to increase of love, and consequent despair.--This too, my father opened--and, embarrassed as he was at the recollection of the affair of Wallace, hinted at in his letter, he thought it a happy opportunity of convincing him, that my heart was free, and he was welcome to it (for that was the English of all his conversation on the subject); and desired me to refer him to his friend Mr. Perrin, who could answer that it was a matter rather concealed from, than promoted by me.--I wondered he was able to keep a steady countenance, whilst he talked to me on a point which so cruelly stigmatized his tyranny and unnatural behaviour.--But I suppose he had settled with his own conscience upon the account, and was not anxious what I thought of the matter.--I was, however, more distressed than before--for inevitable decision must be the purport of my reply.--I had three days to answer it; but the longer I thought, the more I was perplexed;--sometimes I resolved to give up Charles--my tongue could pronounce the resolution; but I was not sure of my heart;--besides, the before­mentioned considerations had convinced me, that even that would not be effectual; I had loved--perhaps did love still; and nothing but an heart untouched as his own could content, or be worthy of, Mr. Wolfe.--What then was to be done?--Why, I had been obliged to be honest, and declare my feelings and his absolute disappointment;--but death, that final close of human anxiety, released him from his suspence, and me from my embarrassment.--A nervous complaint, to which he had for years been subject upon any agitation of mind, returned with such violence, as to deprive him first of speech, and then three hours after of life.-- As soon as he was seized, he expected it would end fatally;--and, sending for Mr. Perrin, he made a new disposition of his effects--dividing the fifty thousand amongst his
mother, brothers, and sisters; and bequeathing the ten thousand pounds in the funds to me.--The day after I had received his last letter, I was sitting at my window, thinking how I should express myself so as to give him least pain--and how to dispose of myself, when my father should put his threat into execution;--for he had repeatedly declared, that, if I should be such an unfortunate slut as to lose Mr. Wolfe by my ridiculous prudery, I should find shelter any where else--for his roof was no longer a covering for me.--In this state of mind, I saw a clerk of Mr. Perrin's, who had been at our house before, enter the court­yard.--His first appearance struck me with a horror I cannot

LET T E R LXXVII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
FROM the time of my quitting the house, for near a month, my dear mother came to see me, at some time or other of every day, according to the opportunities which his engagements gave her.--One evening, as she crossed three fields, between her house and ours, full of beans in blossom, the dews being extremely heavy, her shoes and stockings, and indeed most of her cloaths, were wet.--When she went home, he was returned from a visit which she expected would have engaged him longer; and she did not dare to go up to change her cloaths, lest he should ask any questions that might lead to a discovery of where she had been; besides, though he treated her so cruelly, he could not bear to be without her.--She therefore sat out the time of supper, and, having passed a restless night, got up the next morning with a sore throat.--She was scarce able to walk about the house; but she dreaded a confinement, which must prevent her from seeing me: she therefore resolved to make an effort towards one visit more, but was so ill that she was obliged to return before she had got half-way to the mill.--That day passed--another, and another, and I neither saw, nor heard from her.--My heart was breaking.--I ran over all the conversation that had passed between us, and could not recollect any the least cause of offence; besides, she was not that kind of parent. On the evening of the third day, I was sitting in the little garden behind the house, and a pretty little boy about three years old, belonging to the miller's son, upon my lap--when another child came running to us, crying, "The squire! the squire!" Convinced that this exclamation announced my father, I set down the child, and from my first impulse ran to throw myself at his feet-- when, with a countenance more softened than I could have hoped, though with an averted face, he raised me, and said, "Your mother wants you, Amelia."--"Where! where, Sir, is my dear mother?--I have not seen her these three days."--"So then! he replied, she has been here! and her disobedience is like to cost her dear."--"Oh, Sir, be not angry with my dear parent, nor call her maternal tenderness by so harsh a name;--'twas not you she disobeyed, for you yourself are come to see your unhappy child; 'twas only your passion, your resentment, that forbad her; but nature, powerful nature, brought her here!--Where! where is she now?"--He was much affected.--"She is at home in bed--not well--go to her."--All this he spoke, or I fancied it; and, without the ceremony of hat or cloak, I flew to the house, and, hurrying up to the bed-chamber, found her in a violent fever--a blister on her back, and leeches on her temples;--and, at the instant I entered, perceived by her incoherent ravings that her brain was turned by the apprehensions she suffered for me.-- She reiterated, "You are her father, why will you banish her? O my child! my child!" I tore open the curtains, and, throwing myself upon the bed by her, told her I was come to restore peace; that my father had relented, and himself had brought me home.--She did not immediately know me; but, in a few minutes after, my father coming in, she raised herself on her elbow, and, looking at us both by turns for a long time, she burst into a flood of tears, which recovered her senses; and, as soon as she could speak, she held out her hand to him, and said, "Oh, Mr. Thompson, take my Amelia to your heart, restore her


L E T TER LXXVIII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS.CLEMENT,
in continuation.
AS soon as the news of my brother's death arrived, my father's temper took a turn more unfortunate than it had before. Instead of being afflicted, he seemed angry--and raved, as if heaven had given him a bond for his son's immortality, and broke it.--I, for my part, was thrown into absolute despair; and my mind was so busied in itself, that I was for several weeks in a state of insensibility to every thing that passed in the world. The servants spoke to me, and I neither heard nor understood them, unless my father, whose presence I began to dread more than ever, was at my ear, to rouse me; and, indeed, his voice was the most powerful antidote to my lethargy.--Charles, whom I now considered as my husband, had no opportunity of writing to me; for I had charged him, as he valued my life, not to hazard a letter, which might discover our secret, to fall into my father's hands, who read all my letters before they came into mine. In this situation I passed four months after the death of my brother; when Mr. Perrin, who frequently passed a melancholy hour with us, called at our house. My father began to ask what purchases he had negotiated lately.--Mr. Perrin said, "he had bought an estate, about eighteen miles distant, belonging to a Mr. Wells, who was gone to reside in London, for the education of his children; and that he thought it an excellent bargain. The purchaser, he said, was a gentleman of the name of Merisford, who had made a very competent fortune in Turkey, where he had resided some years as a merchant, and was now returned to spend it in his native country. The house, he said, would require new painting and papering, before the new tenant took possession; but he believed that mean time he would lodge at the house of a brother of his (Mr. Perrin's); and that he expected him down in a fortnight." My father asked no farther questions; and I wondered at it. I was not in a humour to be curious: so the conversation ended; and after tea he went away.--I could not tell why, if I had been asked; but I felt unusual horror at the mention of the name--if it was what the French call presentiment, it has since been amply justified.--About three weeks after that time, a person came to our house, with smuggled muslin, tea, taffaty, &c.; and my father, who would rather never buy any thing if he could help it, would yet be easier prevailed upon to buy a bargain of what he did not want at all, than pay a fair market­price for what he did. He happened then to be in one of his best humours; and, bringing the woman into the parlour, and the servant at the same time announcing some male visitor, he left me to make my purchases; and the woman slipped into my hand a letter from Charles;--it was the first respite to months of misery. My heart was laying up in store many repeated readings of his uninterrupted affection; my fancy rambled over years of happiness to come, and hoped for intermediate relief from stratagems like these:--but my ideal happiness was not of long continuance; for, just as I was going to give it a second reading, my father came in, and introduced my fate in the shape of Merisford.--The moment they came in, I foresaw the consequences, at least to a certain degree.--My father's countenance was lit up with expectation; he had discovered that Merisford was a single man, and did not doubt the influence of my charms.--He made me dismiss the


L E T T E R LXXIX.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
I WAS now in a situation perhaps the most distressing that human nature knows.--Had the man been of a generous and sympathetic nature, and had loved me, he must have partaken my distress; but, as the matter turned out, I had it all to myself.--He seemed as much at a loss as I was: At last, after much hesitation, and taking his diamond ring off one finger and putting it on another, he began, "Miss Amelia, says he, I did'nt stay an hour in London after your bobs were finish'd, and the parchments, d'ye see, for our wedding."--"Sir, says I, I am extremely sorry you should have given yourself so much unnecessary trouble about a business which must end as it began."--"O L--d! replied the beast, it will end I dare say, in a fine boy at the nine months end."--"Sir, pray do me the favour of a moment's attention.--Your merit and your fortune will doubtless entitle you to a more deserving wife--I hope it will;--for my part, before I had the pleasure to see you, an inevitable stroke of fate disqualified me for that honour."--"O, I suppose you're in love--be you? As for that, why I have been in love myself, before now, d'ye see; but a night's lodging always cured me.--So--" I was obliged to interrupt him; but did not care to quarrel with him, if I could avoid it; because I found he was my only road to escape by; and, rough and disgusting as it was, I chose rather to travel that road, than be prevented from going the journey at all; for still I did not suppose it possible for even him to be the brute I afterwards found him.--"But, Sir, says I, plain and open dealing is always best: you come recommended to me by my father; and I should be happy to have it in my power to obey him, and marry you; but the fact is--I am already married."--He started; and I felt the same kind of joy which a tender nurse receives, when a patient shrugging from the blister's salutary smart gives token of amendment.--The storm at last broke out. "Damn your father! madam, says he, how dare he send me to London on a fool's errand?"--"Pray, Sir, be patient; my marriage was unknown to him; and, but for this accident, might have long remained so. Nor is there a person now living who was present, except my husband, to discover it.--Even now, I trust to your generosity to shelter me from his anger."--"How can I shelter you, unless you marry me?"--"Dear Sir, by declining it yourself; you are your own master; and have a right to change your mind: I am sure, you may find reasons enough to support you in such a change. You may have discovered some defects in my conversation, my sentiments, or my temper, now we are left alone; which will amply justify you."--"As for that there, Miss, says he, I b'ent used to break my word; I have bought and sold wholesale and retail these thirty years; and I never returned a bale of goods, d'ye see, that I had once bought, whatever flaws I might find when I looked them over: if, indeed, any friend told me of their being damaged, why I either made my own terms, or didn't buy at all.--Now, if you had told me of this here before I went to London and laid out my money, why, mayhap, I might have thought better of it; but, as things are as they are, why I don't see but I must have the worst end of the staff now, be as it will.--So, there is nobody, by your own account, to tell anything of the matter, except your husband, as you call him, why, I suppose, he


LET T E R LXXX.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
I REMAINED in a state of uninterrupted though painful quietness, for five days following; and, not being able to account for it any other way, or perhaps having the seeds of hope more thickly sown in my composition than any other virtue, I began to flatter myself that they had given up the point, and only confined me by way of punishment for what my father called my obstinacy.--On the Sunday following, my maid, who was the only person allowed to come near me, at her return from church, stunned me with the news of having heard Mr. Merisford's name and mine published, by way of banns; and that my father himself had gone, to be sure it was not neglected; and, perhaps, to see whether any person would object; for they still thought, or affected to think, that I had played the fool (as my father delicately expressed himself) with some young man on the farm.--At dinner, I asked my father if it was true? And whether, if Mr. Merisford could be so base as to marry a woman so circumstanced, he could be so regardless of his own credit as to call such a man his son?--My father said, it was very true; and desired me to keep a civil tongue in my head; for that, if Mr. Merisford had ever so much patience now, I could not suppose but he would remember my sauciness when he had me in his power.--I told him, "That, were that fatal moment ever to arrive, I was not insensible of what I might expect; but that, whilst Charles Mason had life, and I my senses, it was impossible for such an event to happen." They both laughed; and my father said, "Why, miss, you have not told us who was your parson, nor your guests;--you certainly cannot forget their names:--will you give us an account of your wedding, in the same pretty language of your invocation?" I could not bear his insult; and, not being able to give them a parson's name as they desired, nor expecting consideration or belief should I tell the real truth, I only appealed to heaven for the reality of my marriage with Charles; and said, that, as the subject served only for sport, I begged it might be put an end to. Nothing material happened till the Sunday following, when the banns were published again.--I was now not only confined, but watched. I never had accustomed myself to make confidents of servants; and my father knew it; yet suspecting from whom the intelligence of the first publication came, my maid was discharged. Fired with resentment, she went to every neighbour's house, and exposed the treatment I received to the servants; from whom it soon reached the heads of the family. Amongst others, she went to the Parsonage­house; the parson was a very good man, but, fatally for me, a very pedant in his profession, and a slave to all its forms and ceremonies.--His wife too was a very worthy woman, but virtuous by rule, and held a deviation from her ideas as distant from the possibility of mercy, as the papists do all sects but their own.--To them, then, it was a desperate undertaking to unravel my secret, and yet 'twas my only chance.--After the second Sunday's service was over, she came up to my father, and asked him "why Miss Thompson was not at church?"--He told her, "that I was only a little prudish on account of my approaching marriage. She did not admit the excuse; and said, "she would


L E T T E R LXXXI.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in continuation.
FROM that night till the Friday following I never saw my father or my tyrant elect, who, however, spent their time very happily; whilst I was locked in my bed-chamber, and never saw or spoke to a human creature, my father always attending the house-maid to my door, whilst she brought me regularly breakfast, dinner, tea, and supper;--and, seeing that reserve, I took care to keep it up for my own pride­sake, for the interval which was necessarily spent in making my bed, sweeping my room, &c.--On Friday morning, when she came up, I was still in bed, a thing very unusual with me.--She asked me how I did? I said, "Not very well"--and turned on the other side.--At dinner-time she came, and I was still in bed, which she immediately communicated to my father, who instantly entered, and, coming to my bed-side, told me, "that he hoped I was not ill in reality, and that 'twould answer no purpose to pretend it; for that he was so tired of the trouble of being obliged to keep me shut up from ruin, that, notwithstanding Mrs. Parfect's nonsense about folks being married in churches, if I was not able to go there on Sunday, I should be married at home;--and that Mr. Merisford and he had joined for the expence of a special licence to be prepared, for all my arts!"--I looked up in his face, but made him no answer.--I fancy my countenance shocked him; for, holding out his hand, "Why will you be perverse, Amelia?" says he--"Oh, Sir, I have no argument left to use--dispose of me as you please: the guilt of such a step, as you are going to force me to, fall not on my soul! nor my misery upon yours!"--The servant reminded him that dinner waited, and he left me; but soon after sent me word, that Mr. and Mrs. Parfect, Mr. Merisford, and he, would drink tea with me in my bed-chamber, if I was not able to come down.--I got up, and dressed myself, though my head was so disordered with five days almost incessant tears, that I was frequently obliged to rest.--About six o'clock they came up; and having, as I thought, softened him a little in the morning, I resolved to make one effort more, to escape the horrors of legal prostitution.--Mrs. Parfect took notice that I did not look well; and expressed an opinion that I was too much confined, though she did not suspect it was by force.--I had no mind to enrage my father, and lose the little hold I seemed to have got of his feelings; so I did not let her into the secret, but said, "That I had little enjoyment of any of the innocent amusements of life, since I was so unhappy as not to have it in my power to obey my father in a command he had laid upon me, without sacrificing my future peace and self­approbation."--He desired that I would say no more upon that subject; and Merisford assuring me that I should change my mind before Monday morning, I let my long­treasured indignation pour upon him at once.--"Mr. Merisford, says I, I have long wished for an opportunity of laying before you, in plain terms, those prospects, which a man, who had either a head or a heart, must have collected from my behaviour ever since your return from London.--Were my hand and heart totally disengaged, you are, of all the creation, perhaps the last man I should chuse to bestow them on.--I dislike your person (he looked in the glass)--but that's a trifling objection, and might be surmounted.--I disapprove of every sentiment I have ever heard


L E T T E R LXXXII.
MRS. MERISFORD TO MRS. CLEMENT,
in conclusion.
IF it be possible that your patience has been equal to the journey I have prepared for it through the preceding pages, I hope that, as I have not endeavoured to soften or to conceal an action of my unfortunate life, nor even a secret wish by which they were excited, due allowance will be made for the weakness of the human heart, unaided by experience, and deprived of its best support in the loss of my excellent mother.--If I am acquitted by you and my uncle Charles, the happiness of my future moments will be compleat. I have now no hopes, no fears, no prospects, no anxieties;--but, excluded from the converse of the interested and the artificial, I enjoy with decent comfort the present hour, nor dread the last; but look with chearful hope to the day that closes my account, and lays me peaceful in the reconciling grave, where all persecutions cease.--I have not taken notice of any occurrence later than that of my first escape, and meeting my uncle at Charles's chambers: my being at your house, and the treatment I there received from Mr. Merisford, you probably remember; I will not therefore repeat it, as, though I think the most minute truths essential to a history (for small things have their influence as well as great), I have an abhorrence of repetitions, and can scarcely allow even veracity to be a full compensation for avoidable length.--You recollect, no doubt, that, whilst you were below with my uncle, I was forced from your house.--At the corner of the street he put me into a hackney­coach, and ordered the man to drive home.--When we arrived, the young lady who had escaped with me met me at the door, and, throwing herself on her knees, confessed, that, alarmed by the situation my uncle's presence had thrown me into, she had returned, and informed Mr. Merisford where she had left me.--He had, it seems, an appointment in the city, which he was obliged to attend; and, relying upon my return, he had no thought of going to seek me, till my uncle's letter arrived, which, enraged by a spirit of the most malignant revenge, he sent to the unhappy young man, who, mad with disappointment (though he had nothing in view but my rescue), and made desperate by the prospect of saving me being cut off by my uncle's interference, sent him a challenge, and, having wounded him (as he thought) fatally, was thrown by remorse on the point of his own sword, and died upon the spot.--The recollection is too painful.--Accept, dear youth, a tributary tear; and let my life of penance, for an involuntary desertion of thy love, entitle me to share in those regions of unmixed delights, where parents can't command, nor children suffer slavery!--The first moments of reproach and resentment being over, he asked what other scheme I had to propose,--told me that Miss Barnes was so shocked at my want of affection for a husband who deserved better at my hands, that she could not reconcile it to herself to assist me any farther; but was disposed, he believed, if matters could be accommodated, to make him some reparation for my cruelty; and, as I had often expressed a wish for a separate apartment, that I might now take her's, and leave my part of his bed for a more deserving woman to occupy.--I told him, "that if Miss Barnes could reconcile it to herself to take my place as partner of his bed and mistress of his house, she had my consent;--that, if there was any form of law,


L E T T E R LXXXIII.
MRS. CLEMENT TO MRS. BELLAS. DEAR CHARLOTTE,
I Enclose you to-day the conclusion of Amelia's hapless story. I don't know that ever I was more pleased with any thing I either read or heard;--for I own myself a disciple of the sober lady Grace in one point at least; and admire Nature, let her dress be never so homely.--Mr. Clement read some of the letters with as much avidity, as a love-sick girl of fifteen does a new novel, when she hopes to find a precedent for the first act of folly she commits, and even expects a pattern for the rope­ladder by which she meditates an escape.--For the last week he has been uncommonly busy in the compting­house; and, but for the chearfulness he keeps up in his countenance and manner, I should be apprehensive that something went wrong; but, when I spoke to him this morning at breakfast, he chid me for my folly, and told me, "that if our shipwrights in the dock-yards were as industrious in preparing the fleet, as I was in manufacturing distress, we should be in good condition next spring to meet and decide the fate of the Americans."--You know he is a great politician; and he had, as I afterwards found, been reading some letters of private intelligence respecting our present unhappy war in America, which gave his countenance the gloom which had alarmed me.--I think politics sit mighty ill upon a woman; so I gave up the point directly, though I cannot say but I sometimes heave a melancholy sigh, for the dreadful and unnatural conflict of brother against brother armed, and parent against children!--However, if we consider the matter in a more enlarged view, all wars are liable to the same objections; for are we not all brothers--children of the same common Parent, and subjects of the same Prince--even the Prince of Peace?-- Patriots and wise men may say what they please; but, as an individual of that sex whose valour is not in the list of their virtues, I often think it wonderful that a Sovereign like ours, whose virtues even his enemies confess, should have a single subject who can be base enough to lift his arm against him. I do not understand the question; nor will attempt to decide whether it was worth the Americans contending, at the expence of so much blood and treasure, what particular mode of taxation should be adopted. But this I think, that, had they reasoned with moderation, and a reference to the character of the Prince they oppose; they would have acted more consistently with wisdom and true policy, to have trusted, with the confidence of well­treated sons, in a parent's dispensations towards them.--Why should they suppose, that a man whose heart is kept alive to all the finest feelings of humanity, by the daily, the hourly exertions of it toward a numerous offspring of his own, (a mark, a singular one, of Heaven's protection!) should treat with rigour his adopted children; or pull up by the roots those growing shrubs which flourished happily and contentedly under his royal shade? It was not nature's voice, nor God's;--it was the voice of faction, the subtle schemes of a designing few, to ruin millions for their partial interests, and plunge two nations in blood and horror, that they might smile in dear­bought security;--that they might gratify ambition, avarice, or revenge, with the lives, the properties, and the fame of the deluded multitudes, who daily fall sacrifices to their artifice, and manure with their blood those fields from which they expect a bounteous

